('game', {'comments': [{'username': 'ADHDefn', 'comment': 'Won via the #onboardolympics', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Aglarendil', 'comment': 'Really nice, original mechanics, as idea, and open to dovelopment. Mats really good, a kick well made. Hoping they can improve solo mode because big part of experience it’s related to more players, now, maybe. I will improve the solo mode.  Anyway, if I can imagine some add on I guess: 1-  EVENT CARD Are funny but few. But they can really improve experience and consent to better stay in old west. Cause of cost of cards I suggest an axpansion with app or a rich book (like in THIS WAR OF MINE”. 2- SCENARIOS with story. The game has been really well made and give a lot of possibility. It is a really open system, so we can build also some movies expansions western movies dedicated… 3- RULEBOOK is well made but really some infos are too few explained, need to improve explocations, specially about movement; 4- CHARACTERS. We can build a Character Creating System. My idea is to do a mix question/answer system and dice, where you choose something about you, your story, your family, your experience and the sistem lead you to build different characters, maybe with personal life objective; 5- STORYTELLING . Because of the nature of game, we feel to find a personal experience, the system consent it. So, even if someone don’t like (but have commercial good results- see Pandemic serie…) is possible propose some legacy expansions, where you have unique scenarios but with each of them you don’t lose your money because you can find new cards and maps that you can use expanding your collection.  Many things to do! Ike… put peoples at work!1 hahahha', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'amanal_lake', 'comment': 'I threw away 2 of the Gametrayz as to get the game in the box. There is a lack of detail here that has me concerned about the game play.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'Annihalus', 'comment': 'This was a disappointment for me. I love the artwork. I like how sandbox it is. Components were good. I found the characters uninteresting and not very unique, just slightly different. Will admit hype may have been high.', 'rating': '4'}, {'username': 'armor_11', 'comment': "Managed to get a three player game of this in on Tabletop Simulator.  I don't own the physical game yet, but I have backed it on Kickstarter.  Although I have only scratched the surface of the game, we had a blast playing.  There are many paths to victory and the theme is rich and deep.  There are trophies to acquire, physical combat, NPC's to contend with, skill development, the list goes on and on. When they say that this is a sandbox game, they aren't kidding. But that doesn't mean that this is a ruleset looking for a game. It's just that you can win the game a variety of ways. I'm REALLY looking forward to getting my copy. ", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'benztowner', 'comment': 'German Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bhb_cosmos', 'comment': 'Best for 4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BlackRum', 'comment': 'Rating after Intro and first glance on full ruleset. This looks like a potential Golden Geek Game  Update: 10/10 after Playing the Master of Chaos Version. Best Big Game 2023 from my POV.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'boardgamedoktor', 'comment': 'Backerkit, Bedesbach', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bpa7403', 'comment': 'Great Experience, and I really enjoyed it. A lot of unique things going on in this game. It is one of those games that just let you have fun and have an imagination. I kind of compare it to Red Dead Redemption. It\'s a big open-world game and has different pathways to victory. If you like pulling off goals and tasks, this one is for you. The goals and tasks are random for each character in every game. I love the rock-paper-scissors combat mechanic and how you can augment it with weapons and items. The way some items can be used in combat, or they can be exhausted during gameplay.  The resource generation with the cabin is great. The various ways you earn points in the game can be a lot, but it does not feel overwhelming. My favorite is the Bank Note. Since I have played with everything, it will be hard to play it without everything. The game allows you to use your imagination. The game is its own thematic animal. There are also extra things in the game that cannot be utilized yet (future expansion material). I am glad they plan on expanding on the game. I love what the creator is doing with the whole Bantam Planet website. The artwork in the game is amazing. There are a few things I did have some concerns with. Some of the inserts did not fit sleeved cards. However, I did come up with my own solution until they fix the issue. I wish there was more characters to choose from. I will say that the rule book is a little rough. However, the game\'s creators in the forums respond to rule questions regularly. The solo is really fun, however, If you can\'t take a thematic loss at the end then this one is not for you. Yes, you can die in the solo and the game is over and you have to restart. There is no re-spawn in solo. There is some "take that" in it. Which I love. But some gamers have hard times recovering from a swingy loss and may make their experience not good. If you use your "don\'t take that" handicap card, then this one is not for you. Sometimes the player interaction can be very minimal if none at all.  I love the events, however I wish there were more than just 54 and in solo, you only utilize only a few of those. Some of the events go back into the deck until you can master what the event is requiring.  There seems to be some things missing, but from what I can tell, they may or will be included in future expansions (like the train). You cannot use the train station for anything yet. The game boards do feel disconnected from each other, but not a big deal. Not a big deal for me, but the game is a table hog and may take some time to setup and play based on player count and experience. I usually do not like dice rolling to decide things, however there is some dice mitigation and re-rolls. Lastly, unfortunately I am not going to compare it to other games. Yeah, it may have taken some mechanics from other games. But there are many games out there that do that exact same thing and gamers still play them. I feel this game will open up new ways for other games to be developed. Thanks for reading and have fun.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'bramadan', 'comment': 'To Try', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BrandonCrul', 'comment': 'The Shadow Governors Hide details The frontier looks even more beautiful through the eyes of the Shadow Governors. You will receive your very own physical copy of Bantam West plus all unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals, Metal Coins, Terrain Upgrade Pack, Upgraded First Player Token, and a signed Postcard!  This item does not include shipping. You will be asked to pay it after Kickstarter ends from the Pledge Manager. See the shipping section for more details.  INCLUDES: Bantam West Base Game All Unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals Metal Coins Terrain Upgrade Pack Upgraded First Player Token Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard  + Card Sleeves', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Bricklebrit_Games', 'comment': 'I just unboxed it. I will return to rate and review shortly.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bwohmie', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge - Like New', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'chicobrew', 'comment': "Such a great game. I really hope for expansions. Can't say enough about how great it is. Only critique is the organization of the rulebook. It's not bad. But could be better. And I Hope for some exploration tiles next round", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'cmlee1017', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DButts', 'comment': "Great open sandbox game, you can decide how you want to play and aim for that and then react as other things happen and change things if needed. So many cool stories that come out when you play. Great game!! Can't wait for my copy to arrive!!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'deeplydapper', 'comment': "Kickstarter: Shadow Governer's Pledge", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'devilq8', 'comment': 'Governor pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DiceQueen27', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Dickhillman', 'comment': 'May Sell', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'dingo76', 'comment': 'Sandbox- Western.. :-) So cool. Sometimes, a crazy Manual ;-), but if you understand it, it is very easy, so many oppinions to play with you char. a realy great game. i love it.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'D_B_Games', 'comment': 'I have played with the designer Ike and some other fine folk online. This game is absolutely amazing. It is complex, well thought out and gives tonnes of choice. Wonderful stories and fun times are to be had here for sure. Highly recommended!!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Erikk78', 'comment': "Rating after the 'warm up' scenarios. Not impressed yet, but lets see where it goes.", 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'evkefalas', 'comment': 'Home on the Range pledge Plus all sgs', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'fODDER841', 'comment': 'Have had a great time playing this on BGA a number of times.  Really looking forward to the physical copy.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'futari', 'comment': '2024 59,49€', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'garyjgeoaccess', 'comment': 'UPDATED AFTER A RECENT PAIR OF GAMES.  Simply put, Bantam West looks great sitting on the table. The layout is top notch. The character models are very good, and they come with a wash already applied so that you don\'t really even need to paint them. They look great right out of the box. And the box itself is stuffed with content, for the various game modes, from the Warm Welcome introductory mode to the Solo mode.   The game designer was very responsive throughout the entire Kickstarter campaign. For a first time game developer using Kickstarter for the first time, the campaign went very well. It was a model of how to run your first Kickstarter (and reminded me favorably of Obsession, also by a first-timer).   This one was my most eagerly anticipated and awaited titles (at least of the past couple years). But I have to admit the game play at first came as a disappointment. Nonetheless, the game is growing on me! The game play mechanics contain nothing new or innovative. But games are almost always filled with tension.   SOLO GAME PLAY To see what I\'m talking about regarding game play mechanics, it\'s useful to examine how the Solo game works, in which you get tasks that are little more than busy work. The first task simply has you move to your choice of four destinations, pick up a token, and return to the saloon with it. Then you have to venture onto terrain tiles and do enough logging that you can build a cabin. Next up, you have to work on endeavoring in all four types so that you can reap the benefits by making money, buying weapons, buying a horse, etc. In short, you have to do the standard business of the game. But this business has little sense of strategy when played in solo mode. Again, it\'s busy work. And I don\'t need games that provide simple dice rolling mechanics, and that\'s what we have here. I want game mechanics that really push me to think strategically (as in Legends of Andor, for example). And this game comes up way short in this respect.   If you are drawn to this game because it supposedly supports solo play, you will likely be in for a big disappointment. However, there is a lot to like in Bantam West ... see the next section.  MULTI-PLAYER GAMEs Okay, forget about Solo mode. This is NOT a good solo game. But how does it do as a multi-player game? Here, the results are much more encouraging. The gameplay is in fact quite enjoyable as the characters roam around old West locations. It\'s all about earning "notoriety." There are STANDARD ways players can earn notoriety. But each player also gets a TO-DO list that provides additional opportunities. Plus as players tackle the game\'s more advanced modes, more mechanics for earning notoriety become available, such as hiring "riders" and tackling a variety of "pursuits," or by depositing money in the bank and watching the balance grow (this strikes me as a strange mechanic for a western game!). The game gives players a broad canvas upon which to play out their western fantasies.   Play against real-live opponents works better than the game\'s solo mode not because the game mechanics are any better (the mechanics are exactly the same), but because now the players are in competition to acquire notoriety. So in head-to-head competition, the game play does have some tension, as players rush to check off items on their to-do lists and otherwise acquire notoriety by any means necessary.   I\'m not a big fan of the "Varied To-Do Lists," which sometimes are just plain unfair, given the character that a player might draw. There can be a complete disconnect between the character and the tasks on their to-do list. We have instead tried playing with the introductory to-do list for all our games, flipping the list to the B side after all players players have completed this A side. But admittedly, this keeps some of the character quirks (such as Hannah\'s pyromania) from playing out.   I might have some misgivings about the game play mechanics, but this is a fun game when played against one or more opponents, as you watch the characters struggle in the Old West. This game is all about theme.    THEME VS. MECHANICS Bantam West is for people who want to spend time in the old west, to walk the streets of a western town, to strike out into the harsh land on their own, to prospect, to forage, to hunt, to cut down trees. It allows you to torch all the buildings and cabins that you want (think HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER or UNFORGIVEN). It allows you to make your fortune mining (think TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE or PAINT YOUR WAGON). It allows you to become a minor lumber baron (think BIG TREES and COME AND GET IT). It allows you spend time at a saloon swilling down brews (movies too numerous to mention).   The game allows players to live in a world that scratches that itch for rolling back the clock 150 years and living on the American frontier. The game does not do this with game play that is new or surprising. On the contrary, the game play mechanics are unimaginative. For example, how does any player mine? They roll two dice. How does any player cut down trees? They roll two dice. How does any player hunt? You get it. They roll two dice. Etc. Each player starts with exactly the same level at the various endeavors, and then depending on how much they perform a given endeavor, their proficiency level increases. This is a strange game play choice given that each character has an array of skill ratings. You might think a character with more strength might be better at being a lumberjack, but no, all characters are totally equal in this respect. A character might be better at sneaking or negotiating or malice, but these SKILLS have little effect on how a character performs one of the main endeavors. This game-design decision was undoubtedly made so that the characters would start on a relatively level playing field (i.e., so that no one character would have a significant advantage over the rest), but it does have the effect of making the characters less impactful than their array of skill ratings might suggest.   No, this is NOT a game in which the developers came up with interesting game mechanics that they THEN wrapped with theme. This is a game that places a very high premium on building the western theme FIRST with game-play mechanics in the background, supporting that theme, allowing that theme to come to life. This is a decidedly old-fashioned approach to game design. Developers have moved away from this approach over the past couple of decades in favor of euro game mechanics. But Bantam West adheres to an older approach in which theme is everything and lackluster game play mechanics are forgiven.   Hey, I enjoy playing old-style games that are all about theme. Arkham Horror (the board game) was THE game that pulled me into the board gaming hobby nearly twenty years ago--and it\'s about as ugly (in terms of game mechanics) as a game can get. I enjoy good game mechanics but I also insist on themes that I find intriguing (such as the old West!). So how does Bantam West do on these terms? Read on.  THEME AND THE FUTURE Bantam West MOSTLY gets the western theme right. Yay! The game designers truly wanted to deliver a game that oozes the Old West from every element on the board. And on those terms the designers have succeeded.   I question some of their decisions, such as why so much pyromania? Alligators, really? Foraging? Huh. Where are the cattle herds? Where are the sod busters? Where are the cattle towns? But this stuff can and maybe will be added in expansions.   A railroad station is on the town tile, in the lower left corner. It doesn\'t do anything yet, but I feel confident it WILL in an expansion. Other hints -- e.g., a corn plant on an unused icon suggests farm land might be in the offing and a wagon wheel on another icon suggests a pioneer trail might be coming on a future terrain tile -- hints like these bode well for the game\'s future . The game can grow and become a more complete portrayal of life in the west. Players could conceivably even mix and match terrain tiles so the game play fits their expectations for a particular vision of the American western, or a view of the spaghetti western. (Maybe? Not sure that will ever happen, but one can hope.)  MORE GAME PLAY PARTICULARS (THE COMBAT DECK) Here is an example of a game-design decision that seems sort of strange to me. Consider the combat deck. At the start of the game, this is a simple deck of nine cards. Each character gets their own deck, with a third of these cards being customized for that character, with the other two thirds being standard combat cards. Players can add to this deck with combat cards acquired from the Gunsmith shop. During a fight, players don\'t know which cards they will draw to their hand until the combat has started--unless they launch an ambush--so the players decide to fight and THEN they find out what cards they have in their hand. Notice this is very different from games like Mage Knight, for example, in which everything a player does comes from the puzzle of the player\'s deck. Mage Knight makes every turn a puzzle, in which the player must figure out how to accomplish what they want to do given the cards in their hand. Bantam West doesn\'t give the players that puzzle. The players decide to fight first and then they are given a hand of cards to use. This seems backwards to me and it robs Bantam West of strategic decisions in favor of simple rock-paper-scissors mechanics. I don\'t really like how weapons only come into play if you\'re lucky enough to draw them. Otherwise, a player might be using their standard combat cards (brawl, tackle, block, etc.), unless again, it\'s an ambush. Only in an ambush can a player choose their first card. The game deserves a better system for fighting.  ABOUT THE RULE BOOK ... Like the game itself, the rulebook looks great.  There are lots of examples and illustrations to help players understand how this complex game works. But the rulebook only scratches the surface and doesn\'t provide many answers. It was evidently written by somewhat so familiar with the game that they had lost all sense of perspective on what NEW players needed to know. They assumed so much of the game is self-evident, such as the store interactions, which are not defined anywhere. Players must interpret the brief text and icons, but these store interaction spaces are NOT always self-evident. Some are quite difficult to decipher.  I\'ll use cabins as an example of what\'s wrong with the rule book. A section on "Building Cabins" provides many of the answers about how cabins work, but it doesn\'t provide everything. There is no one place in the rulebook that explains everything on the cabin cards. To learn what the resource/fire icons mean, you must turn to the section on Arson. To learn about the skill icon at the top of the card (in a triangle with the black background), you must turn to the section on fighting. In other words, for the resource/fire icons and the skill icon, players must know the purpose of the icon before they can find an explanation in the rulebook. I\'m going to repeat this because it\'s very important: To find an explanation in the rulebook, players frequently must already understand the purpose of the icon or the token or the whatever. This approach is not helpful for new players. A better approach would have been to explain in a quick summary everything on the cabin card and to supply page numbers and section title references for additional information. This is a problem repeated over and over in the rulebook, in which information is scattered throughout the pages. I wish the game had provided a reference manual that went over everything in detail, instead of this frequently scattershot approach.  UNBOXING AND STORAGE Yikes. This was probably the longest un-boxing session that I ever endured. Why? Because there are so many components in the box (a good thing, right?), I struggled with how to arrange everything. Do I dare punch out the pieces when I don\'t know how to use them yet? What should I bag together? Do I need to read the entire rulebook to figure out how to best store the pieces? (The answer to that last question is YES. Only after you know the game quite well will you come to grasp how to best store the components.) Labels have been placed on each group of components on the cardboard punch-out  sheets. So as I punched out each set of cardboard components, I bagged and wrote a note with that label. This process took a couple hours! But I sort of enjoy this process and the challenge of storage. Later on, I started combining elements in bags in ways that made sense to me (with my initial limited understanding of game play). But as I learned the game more, I found some of those groupings didn\'t make good sense and I rearranged them. I finally decided to group components by the five game-play modes and sorting character cards by each character (and leaving all the minis in their own holder). This helps get the game out of the box and back onto the table, but it\'s still a challenge setting up the game. (But luckily I\'m sort of masochistic in this respect and enjoy the process.)  WRAP-UP I wish the game designers the best of luck with this game. Ike and his crew ran one of the best Kickstarter campaigns that I have ever witnessed. He has been so responsive to supporter requests and tried to make this game fit the desires of everyone. I want to see him create more games to fill out his Bantam world. But I\'m concerned about the attention to game play mechanics.   Would I support another game in this line? I don\'t think so. In the 21st century, game play mechanics need to receive greater attention. Would I support an expansion for Bantam West? Maybe. Probably. I look forward to seeing additional terrain tiles. I want to see how the unused icons on the game boards will be put into use!   Even with my misgivings (which maybe I\'ve stressed too strongly), this is a fascinating game.', 'rating': '7.5'}, {'username': 'GateauDeLune', 'comment': 'Kickstarter.  Funded: August 12, 2021 Estimated: December 2022 Received: November 14, 2023', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GattoNero25', 'comment': 'Shadow Governour Pledge', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'GeekyBron', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge Completed Survey Oct 27, 2021 Includes: - Base game - All unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals - Metal Coins - Terrain Upgrade Pack - Upgraded First Player Token - Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard - Game Trayz', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GmanJ', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - due Nov-Dec 2024 [revised from September 2023] [revised from March to May 2023 [revised from December 2022] The Shadow Governors Pledge (US$150.00) - inc Bantam West Base Game (US$97.00) - inc Metal Coins (US$21.00) - inc Terrain Upgrade Pack (US$24.00) - inc Upgraded First Player Token (US$10.00) - inc Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard (US$15.00) + Card Sleeves (US$14.00) Shipping (US$14.00) https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/bantamplanet/bantam-west/description Look out for Enemy Upgrade Pack (stretch goal not met)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Gypsypunx', 'comment': 'EN edition. «Home on the range» pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hbksean', 'comment': 'Have played through just the intro, but there is huge potential for this game and I look forward to playing more complex scenarios', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'hiimjohn', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Game', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'HoserBelow', 'comment': 'TT', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hunterrogue', 'comment': 'Why play this when you can play Western Legends?  Mechanics are fiddly, combat very much so.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'imadeadend', 'comment': 'The rulebook is just straight up bad. Missing rules entirely (where does my character start?), lacks a ton of clarity, and has sections that conflict directly with the section that follows. Could barely get through a learning game and won’t be playing again.', 'rating': '3'}, {'username': 'jcustar07', 'comment': 'backed on KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jkozycz', 'comment': "Scratched an itch I've had in relation to sandbox style board games. Enjoyed the feeling of exploration and lore. Felt like there were so many options to create your own path. Daunting the first time, but more intuitive than it seems. Looking forward to what new adventures await in the future of Bantam Planet!", 'rating': '9.5'}, {'username': 'John163', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jo_Kari', 'comment': "This game is a great example of innovation. It takes the open world genre you'd expect to find in video games and refines it for a board game experience. The engaging but familiar skill based mechanics allow any player to immediately jump in and start exploring this vast world without first having to circumnavigate an unyielding learning curve. And the combat, oh! A deceptively simple system inspired by 'rock, paper, scissors' that somehow has the scope to tell new and exciting stories every time. The first time I played, I was hiding out in an abandoned shack till a rival gunslinger came barging in looking for my head and proposed to remove it from my shoulders. In the ensuing fight, we swung at each other around this dingy cabin till I shattered a window and leapt out. As I fled across the river, my rival stood outside firing pop shots into the water, desperate to catch me. But I was too quick and vanished into the trees. Now, I didn't have to work very hard to picture this story, the game told me this narrative with little more than a few cards with just a couple of words apiece. It truly is ingenious. I cannot recommend this game enough. Make sure you pick it up when the campaign launches!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'JTQuest', 'comment': 'KS ETA DEC 2022', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'KatDaddy', 'comment': 'A bad rule book is unforgivable!!!', 'rating': '5'}, {'username': 'kusti0152', 'comment': 'Based on introduction scenario. This was disappointement.I can see potential of this game but a way how you try to teach this game is not a good solution.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'landon1013', 'comment': 'I have only played the intro level, I need to re-rate after playing the "full" version of the game.  Category 0-5 Rating Experience (35%) - 4.5 Mechanics (20%) - 4 Involvement (20%) - 4 Game Length (10%) - 4 Weight of Game (10%) - 4 Aesthetics (5%) - 4 Score - 83.5 Star Rating - 8.35', 'rating': '8.35'}, {'username': 'Larryoturnbull', 'comment': 'Fantastic game with what looks like room to grow. Made use of FAQ, glossary and index. Played each mode and enjoyed the modes theme. Would have given it a 10 if it was easier to read the small text size in some important rules. Bring your magnifying glass and burn the west to the ground!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'LeonM19', 'comment': 'What a great game... a plethora of options what to do... a lot of stratrgy that can get quite complex the game is pretty modular and the thematic catched me.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'marcodegoede', 'comment': "Difficult to learn (lot of rules) but good to play after one try. We're going to play it again", 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'MaxBantamPlanet', 'comment': 'Best game ever? Ok fine, I am a little biased ; )', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'merlinsmess', 'comment': 'Kickstarter first 500', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'MigNix', 'comment': 'Seen this game evolve into one of the most special tabletop experiences I have ever had the pleasure of playing. The designer Ike Bruncardi should be proud of what he has accomplished. The level of detail is outstanding even in the prototype and I am so excited to see the final version... This is one of those rare gems to that will hopefully take the gaming world by storm to allow the world building to be expanded. Seriously impressive... Just Wow!', 'rating': '8.9'}, {'username': 'minh_han', 'comment': "I had been following this game since its beginnings on Kickstarter. Just the attention to detail during the planning and production of the game, along with extensive check-ins from the developers, made me look forward to getting it into my hands. When it arrived and I unboxed it, it did not disappoint. And, there's just SO MUCH there! The box is PACKED with material. The artwork and thematics are amazing. The quality of the materials is top notch. From the minis to the player boards to the linen-finished cards, everything feels so good in my hands. Unpacking it and putting everything in some semblance of order did take quite a while. I kinda regret not splurging on the Gametrayz insert. It would have made ordering the components much easier. And I wish the game came with more bags and of different sizes. I raided my bag collection to get all the components separated.  I just had my first ever play of the game with 3 people. Even watching the How To video on the game website, setting up the game for the first time was a bit intimidating. There's A LOT there. But once we started to play, things fell into place pretty quickly. After a short while, the actions and options became fairly intuitive. One thing that could have been explained a bit better is getting out of town to the outskirts. Because the Warm Welcome intro game only uses two boards, there are only two real ways out of the town in order to Endeavor. Also, it was unclear to us if one automatically transported to the outskirts tile once getting to the edge of town, or if that was another step. We might have spent more Grit than necessary moving from one place to another.   For me, the Warm Welcome intro game was just long enough to fill an evening, especially after spending 20 min to watch the How To Play video and another 15 min to set up the game. We fumbled through our first play, clarifying actions and rules as we went along. I think any more than what we did would have been overwhelming. After a few rounds, we got into the swing of things quickly. My buddy won with all four missions accomplished, while I only completed one, lol. I look forward to playing it again and diving in deeper into the game.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Moppersmurf', 'comment': 'M.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'motchismo', 'comment': 'KS DLX', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'murki', 'comment': 'to follow', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Not_People', 'comment': "A neat sandbox western that walks you through increasingly complex rules via different scenario setups.  However, not our favorite sandbox game.  And due to the increasing scenario complexity you will always be starting less interesting plays when you bring in new people.  Unless you push them to advanced play right away, which may overload them with choice.  Having something like the ambitions from Outer Rim would help direct new players who want to start off in an advanced mode.  Regardless, we didn't find a whole lot calling us to come back to this one.  Also, oddly, the advanced side of the boards switch graphics from day to night and are less nice to look at overall.  So once everyone gets accustomed to the game repeated plays happen on the uglier side of the boards.", 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'panamajr', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Parabellum76', 'comment': 'Talk about inclusive character design... 4 initial characters to choose from and by some "miracle" they happen cover the full spectrum, by todays holier than thou standards, which also now blends into board game designs for better or worse.   Something for everybody to pick from, I know which character would be first pick for most gamers though.   I am just not convinced the distribution and mix of characters is realistic for the time period and therefore I am out. Not for me.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'paulrrahn', 'comment': 'Estimated delivery Dec 2022 (Nov 2023)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'pbrunica', 'comment': 'Kickstarter backed. Ends August 12, 2021. Motto: Wish you were here!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Poins', 'comment': '+ Dead Settlers Map', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'PPMP', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'puggi', 'comment': 'A few months ago, I made the decision to expand my board game collection with games that can fill an entire evening in terms of gameplay length and immersion. For each classic theme, I aimed to have at least one of these "big games," as I like to call them. Something like "Nemesis for space and aliens, Everrain for seafaring, Spring and Autumn for China," and so on. Bantam was my hope for representing the big game in the Western theme, and what can I say... 10/10, jackpot, bullseye, pick your favorite expression. This game has such a great variety of possibilities, each game is different. And the best part: no matter which way you choose, you can make points with it. I saw someone winning with killing every NPC he could find, I saw someone winning with selling wood…. This game is wonderful. Strategy tip: for experienced player (e.g. Brass Level) I encourage you to directly start with Master of Chaos, I tried it two times with different 4P-groups and each time it worked after two turns. A much greater game experience than the tutorial', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'rarroyo', 'comment': '100 Bantam Planet', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'RebJaenus', 'comment': "Cool, open world, western themed Immersive Tabletop Sim (their term).  Has a lot going on and is less fun with less of the stuff added.  Also needs to be played with the right mindset.  If played as a simple race to X number of points, nobody has much fun, because the point goals are a touch too easy, but if played with the open world, exploration mindset, it's very fun.", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'rendezvous_salatiga', 'comment': 'Great Sandbox Game', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'rigogarcia', 'comment': "Great game! My partner went in completely cold (hadn't read the rulebook), and I got her running within 20min. The ruleset and game mechanics are so intuitive. I can't wait to continue integrating additional gameplay features into future play throughs.  Solid design. Highly recommend! Great job, Ike and team! :)", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'Rivka', 'comment': 'Played at a library game session. Pros: interesting theme, high quality components, reasonable learning curve. Cons: definitely on the longer side of the time estimate (could easily take all afternoon), lots of fiddly components', 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'Saw_Dust_Muncher', 'comment': "I love the them, mechanics, and team that put this together, can't wait to see what they do next", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Secrethippy', 'comment': 'Just a really fun game, with loads of variety and paths to choose on your way to victory. Player interaction can be as much or as little as you want it to be. The way the game build up the modules is great. There’s just so much to do. 100% recommend', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'SentoTM', 'comment': 'No suelen morarme tanto tanto estos juegos, pero me llama. El Oeste siempre me llama... Bandolerooooooo', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sierosehero', 'comment': 'Deutsche Version', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sordeq', 'comment': 'Always a fun time. Every time we play it, even the teaching games are a blast.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'SupermanDX', 'comment': "Mark won via contest. He'll pass on whenever it's delivered.", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'SUPRAMAN79', 'comment': 'Amazing game. Backed this as I was a massive fan of Western Legends but this game is Western Legends x 100. So many ways to score points. Yet to win a game but still keen to play and play again', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'TableForTwoPlayers', 'comment': "Bantam West is an incredibly thematic, immersive simulation/sandbox game.  So much so that even when the game end is triggered, I want to keep going just to see what buttons I can push and levers I can pull.  It strikes a good balance between being a strategic action efficiency game and having just enough luck to do the wild west theme justice.  There are lots of interesting decisions to be made: how much precious time/resources do I spend leveling up my character before I pursue victory points?  Do I spend my hard earned resources to level up my endeavor, making it easier to get them in the future, or do I sell them for cash?  At the same time, the random elements lead to moments of tension, excitement, and emergent storytelling.  The biggest downside to me is, because this game is such a detailed simulation, it is a tough teach.  When we played the intro scenario, it took quite a long time to teach, yet for all that, the actual gameplay was dead simple.  It felt like that initial scenario was a lot of work for little payoff, because it was very short, and half the mechanics in the game were not available to us.  I don't really see a way around this because any additional mechanics might have been too much for a first play, but it left us a bit unsatisfied.  Once we got to the Shadow Governor's scenario though, everything opened up and we were very glad we stuck with it.  Overall, I thoroughly enjoy this one, and can't wait to get it to the table again.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Teslavstwain', 'comment': 'Such a fun, unique game! A lot to think about and heavy on setup, but so much fun packed into one box! I love the different take on deck-fighting and the many options for things to do on a turn. Highly recommend this one and am hopeful I am getting my hands on a copy through a friend!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'tgravil', 'comment': 'My new favorite board game.  Lots to do in an open world environment. They definitely knock this game out of the park on their first try! Looking forward to expansions.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Thing12Games', 'comment': 'GREAT game with a REALLY bad rule book. Worth struggling through the rules and ambiguity though.  Kinda feels like a western Xia.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'VetruvianGamer', 'comment': '3-4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'VittorioV', 'comment': 'Unique and fun boardgame', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'VJBeam', 'comment': 'I’ve been very lucky to get to play Bantam West over the last 6 months and have seen it continue to develop to a point now that this game really is something special! It’s one of those EPIC games!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Wreckage', 'comment': 'I like the theme, naturally, and from talking with the amazing access they provide I like it even more.  This one will be highly anticipated.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'YogiBaldGuru', 'comment': 'En', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'zenmazster', 'comment': "Solo'ing now to be able to teach it to game group next week.  Seems cool and vast with a lot of possibilities.  You'll for sure need a magnifying glass to read important info on some cards.  It's an odd production choice.  Take the smallest text you've seen on cards and shrink it another 50%.  That's my only complaint so far, game looks great besides that.  Random: i will say squarely between pages 8-9 was one of the coolest and most interesting things ive seen in a rulebook.  Its the fun touches like that that add tons of personality to the game.  Fun fact, before i realized what it was was, i thought it was a ton of ants that had somehoW invaded my rulebook and i threw it in the air and screamed LOL.  It looks soo real.", 'rating': 'n/a'}], 'name': 'Bantam West'})
('game', {'comments': [{'username': 'ADHDefn', 'comment': 'Won via the #onboardolympics', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Aglarendil', 'comment': 'Really nice, original mechanics, as idea, and open to dovelopment. Mats really good, a kick well made. Hoping they can improve solo mode because big part of experience it’s related to more players, now, maybe. I will improve the solo mode.  Anyway, if I can imagine some add on I guess: 1-  EVENT CARD Are funny but few. But they can really improve experience and consent to better stay in old west. Cause of cost of cards I suggest an axpansion with app or a rich book (like in THIS WAR OF MINE”. 2- SCENARIOS with story. The game has been really well made and give a lot of possibility. It is a really open system, so we can build also some movies expansions western movies dedicated… 3- RULEBOOK is well made but really some infos are too few explained, need to improve explocations, specially about movement; 4- CHARACTERS. We can build a Character Creating System. My idea is to do a mix question/answer system and dice, where you choose something about you, your story, your family, your experience and the sistem lead you to build different characters, maybe with personal life objective; 5- STORYTELLING . Because of the nature of game, we feel to find a personal experience, the system consent it. So, even if someone don’t like (but have commercial good results- see Pandemic serie…) is possible propose some legacy expansions, where you have unique scenarios but with each of them you don’t lose your money because you can find new cards and maps that you can use expanding your collection.  Many things to do! Ike… put peoples at work!1 hahahha', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'amanal_lake', 'comment': 'I threw away 2 of the Gametrayz as to get the game in the box. There is a lack of detail here that has me concerned about the game play.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'Annihalus', 'comment': 'This was a disappointment for me. I love the artwork. I like how sandbox it is. Components were good. I found the characters uninteresting and not very unique, just slightly different. Will admit hype may have been high.', 'rating': '4'}, {'username': 'armor_11', 'comment': "Managed to get a three player game of this in on Tabletop Simulator.  I don't own the physical game yet, but I have backed it on Kickstarter.  Although I have only scratched the surface of the game, we had a blast playing.  There are many paths to victory and the theme is rich and deep.  There are trophies to acquire, physical combat, NPC's to contend with, skill development, the list goes on and on. When they say that this is a sandbox game, they aren't kidding. But that doesn't mean that this is a ruleset looking for a game. It's just that you can win the game a variety of ways. I'm REALLY looking forward to getting my copy. ", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'benztowner', 'comment': 'German Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bhb_cosmos', 'comment': 'Best for 4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BlackRum', 'comment': 'Rating after Intro and first glance on full ruleset. This looks like a potential Golden Geek Game  Update: 10/10 after Playing the Master of Chaos Version. Best Big Game 2023 from my POV.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'boardgamedoktor', 'comment': 'Backerkit, Bedesbach', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bpa7403', 'comment': 'Great Experience, and I really enjoyed it. A lot of unique things going on in this game. It is one of those games that just let you have fun and have an imagination. I kind of compare it to Red Dead Redemption. It\'s a big open-world game and has different pathways to victory. If you like pulling off goals and tasks, this one is for you. The goals and tasks are random for each character in every game. I love the rock-paper-scissors combat mechanic and how you can augment it with weapons and items. The way some items can be used in combat, or they can be exhausted during gameplay.  The resource generation with the cabin is great. The various ways you earn points in the game can be a lot, but it does not feel overwhelming. My favorite is the Bank Note. Since I have played with everything, it will be hard to play it without everything. The game allows you to use your imagination. The game is its own thematic animal. There are also extra things in the game that cannot be utilized yet (future expansion material). I am glad they plan on expanding on the game. I love what the creator is doing with the whole Bantam Planet website. The artwork in the game is amazing. There are a few things I did have some concerns with. Some of the inserts did not fit sleeved cards. However, I did come up with my own solution until they fix the issue. I wish there was more characters to choose from. I will say that the rule book is a little rough. However, the game\'s creators in the forums respond to rule questions regularly. The solo is really fun, however, If you can\'t take a thematic loss at the end then this one is not for you. Yes, you can die in the solo and the game is over and you have to restart. There is no re-spawn in solo. There is some "take that" in it. Which I love. But some gamers have hard times recovering from a swingy loss and may make their experience not good. If you use your "don\'t take that" handicap card, then this one is not for you. Sometimes the player interaction can be very minimal if none at all.  I love the events, however I wish there were more than just 54 and in solo, you only utilize only a few of those. Some of the events go back into the deck until you can master what the event is requiring.  There seems to be some things missing, but from what I can tell, they may or will be included in future expansions (like the train). You cannot use the train station for anything yet. The game boards do feel disconnected from each other, but not a big deal. Not a big deal for me, but the game is a table hog and may take some time to setup and play based on player count and experience. I usually do not like dice rolling to decide things, however there is some dice mitigation and re-rolls. Lastly, unfortunately I am not going to compare it to other games. Yeah, it may have taken some mechanics from other games. But there are many games out there that do that exact same thing and gamers still play them. I feel this game will open up new ways for other games to be developed. Thanks for reading and have fun.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'bramadan', 'comment': 'To Try', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BrandonCrul', 'comment': 'The Shadow Governors Hide details The frontier looks even more beautiful through the eyes of the Shadow Governors. You will receive your very own physical copy of Bantam West plus all unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals, Metal Coins, Terrain Upgrade Pack, Upgraded First Player Token, and a signed Postcard!  This item does not include shipping. You will be asked to pay it after Kickstarter ends from the Pledge Manager. See the shipping section for more details.  INCLUDES: Bantam West Base Game All Unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals Metal Coins Terrain Upgrade Pack Upgraded First Player Token Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard  + Card Sleeves', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Bricklebrit_Games', 'comment': 'I just unboxed it. I will return to rate and review shortly.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bwohmie', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge - Like New', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'chicobrew', 'comment': "Such a great game. I really hope for expansions. Can't say enough about how great it is. Only critique is the organization of the rulebook. It's not bad. But could be better. And I Hope for some exploration tiles next round", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'cmlee1017', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DButts', 'comment': "Great open sandbox game, you can decide how you want to play and aim for that and then react as other things happen and change things if needed. So many cool stories that come out when you play. Great game!! Can't wait for my copy to arrive!!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'deeplydapper', 'comment': "Kickstarter: Shadow Governer's Pledge", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'devilq8', 'comment': 'Governor pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DiceQueen27', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Dickhillman', 'comment': 'May Sell', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'dingo76', 'comment': 'Sandbox- Western.. :-) So cool. Sometimes, a crazy Manual ;-), but if you understand it, it is very easy, so many oppinions to play with you char. a realy great game. i love it.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'D_B_Games', 'comment': 'I have played with the designer Ike and some other fine folk online. This game is absolutely amazing. It is complex, well thought out and gives tonnes of choice. Wonderful stories and fun times are to be had here for sure. Highly recommended!!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Erikk78', 'comment': "Rating after the 'warm up' scenarios. Not impressed yet, but lets see where it goes.", 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'evkefalas', 'comment': 'Home on the Range pledge Plus all sgs', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'fODDER841', 'comment': 'Have had a great time playing this on BGA a number of times.  Really looking forward to the physical copy.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'futari', 'comment': '2024 59,49€', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'garyjgeoaccess', 'comment': 'UPDATED AFTER A RECENT PAIR OF GAMES.  Simply put, Bantam West looks great sitting on the table. The layout is top notch. The character models are very good, and they come with a wash already applied so that you don\'t really even need to paint them. They look great right out of the box. And the box itself is stuffed with content, for the various game modes, from the Warm Welcome introductory mode to the Solo mode.   The game designer was very responsive throughout the entire Kickstarter campaign. For a first time game developer using Kickstarter for the first time, the campaign went very well. It was a model of how to run your first Kickstarter (and reminded me favorably of Obsession, also by a first-timer).   This one was my most eagerly anticipated and awaited titles (at least of the past couple years). But I have to admit the game play at first came as a disappointment. Nonetheless, the game is growing on me! The game play mechanics contain nothing new or innovative. But games are almost always filled with tension.   SOLO GAME PLAY To see what I\'m talking about regarding game play mechanics, it\'s useful to examine how the Solo game works, in which you get tasks that are little more than busy work. The first task simply has you move to your choice of four destinations, pick up a token, and return to the saloon with it. Then you have to venture onto terrain tiles and do enough logging that you can build a cabin. Next up, you have to work on endeavoring in all four types so that you can reap the benefits by making money, buying weapons, buying a horse, etc. In short, you have to do the standard business of the game. But this business has little sense of strategy when played in solo mode. Again, it\'s busy work. And I don\'t need games that provide simple dice rolling mechanics, and that\'s what we have here. I want game mechanics that really push me to think strategically (as in Legends of Andor, for example). And this game comes up way short in this respect.   If you are drawn to this game because it supposedly supports solo play, you will likely be in for a big disappointment. However, there is a lot to like in Bantam West ... see the next section.  MULTI-PLAYER GAMEs Okay, forget about Solo mode. This is NOT a good solo game. But how does it do as a multi-player game? Here, the results are much more encouraging. The gameplay is in fact quite enjoyable as the characters roam around old West locations. It\'s all about earning "notoriety." There are STANDARD ways players can earn notoriety. But each player also gets a TO-DO list that provides additional opportunities. Plus as players tackle the game\'s more advanced modes, more mechanics for earning notoriety become available, such as hiring "riders" and tackling a variety of "pursuits," or by depositing money in the bank and watching the balance grow (this strikes me as a strange mechanic for a western game!). The game gives players a broad canvas upon which to play out their western fantasies.   Play against real-live opponents works better than the game\'s solo mode not because the game mechanics are any better (the mechanics are exactly the same), but because now the players are in competition to acquire notoriety. So in head-to-head competition, the game play does have some tension, as players rush to check off items on their to-do lists and otherwise acquire notoriety by any means necessary.   I\'m not a big fan of the "Varied To-Do Lists," which sometimes are just plain unfair, given the character that a player might draw. There can be a complete disconnect between the character and the tasks on their to-do list. We have instead tried playing with the introductory to-do list for all our games, flipping the list to the B side after all players players have completed this A side. But admittedly, this keeps some of the character quirks (such as Hannah\'s pyromania) from playing out.   I might have some misgivings about the game play mechanics, but this is a fun game when played against one or more opponents, as you watch the characters struggle in the Old West. This game is all about theme.    THEME VS. MECHANICS Bantam West is for people who want to spend time in the old west, to walk the streets of a western town, to strike out into the harsh land on their own, to prospect, to forage, to hunt, to cut down trees. It allows you to torch all the buildings and cabins that you want (think HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER or UNFORGIVEN). It allows you to make your fortune mining (think TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE or PAINT YOUR WAGON). It allows you to become a minor lumber baron (think BIG TREES and COME AND GET IT). It allows you spend time at a saloon swilling down brews (movies too numerous to mention).   The game allows players to live in a world that scratches that itch for rolling back the clock 150 years and living on the American frontier. The game does not do this with game play that is new or surprising. On the contrary, the game play mechanics are unimaginative. For example, how does any player mine? They roll two dice. How does any player cut down trees? They roll two dice. How does any player hunt? You get it. They roll two dice. Etc. Each player starts with exactly the same level at the various endeavors, and then depending on how much they perform a given endeavor, their proficiency level increases. This is a strange game play choice given that each character has an array of skill ratings. You might think a character with more strength might be better at being a lumberjack, but no, all characters are totally equal in this respect. A character might be better at sneaking or negotiating or malice, but these SKILLS have little effect on how a character performs one of the main endeavors. This game-design decision was undoubtedly made so that the characters would start on a relatively level playing field (i.e., so that no one character would have a significant advantage over the rest), but it does have the effect of making the characters less impactful than their array of skill ratings might suggest.   No, this is NOT a game in which the developers came up with interesting game mechanics that they THEN wrapped with theme. This is a game that places a very high premium on building the western theme FIRST with game-play mechanics in the background, supporting that theme, allowing that theme to come to life. This is a decidedly old-fashioned approach to game design. Developers have moved away from this approach over the past couple of decades in favor of euro game mechanics. But Bantam West adheres to an older approach in which theme is everything and lackluster game play mechanics are forgiven.   Hey, I enjoy playing old-style games that are all about theme. Arkham Horror (the board game) was THE game that pulled me into the board gaming hobby nearly twenty years ago--and it\'s about as ugly (in terms of game mechanics) as a game can get. I enjoy good game mechanics but I also insist on themes that I find intriguing (such as the old West!). So how does Bantam West do on these terms? Read on.  THEME AND THE FUTURE Bantam West MOSTLY gets the western theme right. Yay! The game designers truly wanted to deliver a game that oozes the Old West from every element on the board. And on those terms the designers have succeeded.   I question some of their decisions, such as why so much pyromania? Alligators, really? Foraging? Huh. Where are the cattle herds? Where are the sod busters? Where are the cattle towns? But this stuff can and maybe will be added in expansions.   A railroad station is on the town tile, in the lower left corner. It doesn\'t do anything yet, but I feel confident it WILL in an expansion. Other hints -- e.g., a corn plant on an unused icon suggests farm land might be in the offing and a wagon wheel on another icon suggests a pioneer trail might be coming on a future terrain tile -- hints like these bode well for the game\'s future . The game can grow and become a more complete portrayal of life in the west. Players could conceivably even mix and match terrain tiles so the game play fits their expectations for a particular vision of the American western, or a view of the spaghetti western. (Maybe? Not sure that will ever happen, but one can hope.)  MORE GAME PLAY PARTICULARS (THE COMBAT DECK) Here is an example of a game-design decision that seems sort of strange to me. Consider the combat deck. At the start of the game, this is a simple deck of nine cards. Each character gets their own deck, with a third of these cards being customized for that character, with the other two thirds being standard combat cards. Players can add to this deck with combat cards acquired from the Gunsmith shop. During a fight, players don\'t know which cards they will draw to their hand until the combat has started--unless they launch an ambush--so the players decide to fight and THEN they find out what cards they have in their hand. Notice this is very different from games like Mage Knight, for example, in which everything a player does comes from the puzzle of the player\'s deck. Mage Knight makes every turn a puzzle, in which the player must figure out how to accomplish what they want to do given the cards in their hand. Bantam West doesn\'t give the players that puzzle. The players decide to fight first and then they are given a hand of cards to use. This seems backwards to me and it robs Bantam West of strategic decisions in favor of simple rock-paper-scissors mechanics. I don\'t really like how weapons only come into play if you\'re lucky enough to draw them. Otherwise, a player might be using their standard combat cards (brawl, tackle, block, etc.), unless again, it\'s an ambush. Only in an ambush can a player choose their first card. The game deserves a better system for fighting.  ABOUT THE RULE BOOK ... Like the game itself, the rulebook looks great.  There are lots of examples and illustrations to help players understand how this complex game works. But the rulebook only scratches the surface and doesn\'t provide many answers. It was evidently written by somewhat so familiar with the game that they had lost all sense of perspective on what NEW players needed to know. They assumed so much of the game is self-evident, such as the store interactions, which are not defined anywhere. Players must interpret the brief text and icons, but these store interaction spaces are NOT always self-evident. Some are quite difficult to decipher.  I\'ll use cabins as an example of what\'s wrong with the rule book. A section on "Building Cabins" provides many of the answers about how cabins work, but it doesn\'t provide everything. There is no one place in the rulebook that explains everything on the cabin cards. To learn what the resource/fire icons mean, you must turn to the section on Arson. To learn about the skill icon at the top of the card (in a triangle with the black background), you must turn to the section on fighting. In other words, for the resource/fire icons and the skill icon, players must know the purpose of the icon before they can find an explanation in the rulebook. I\'m going to repeat this because it\'s very important: To find an explanation in the rulebook, players frequently must already understand the purpose of the icon or the token or the whatever. This approach is not helpful for new players. A better approach would have been to explain in a quick summary everything on the cabin card and to supply page numbers and section title references for additional information. This is a problem repeated over and over in the rulebook, in which information is scattered throughout the pages. I wish the game had provided a reference manual that went over everything in detail, instead of this frequently scattershot approach.  UNBOXING AND STORAGE Yikes. This was probably the longest un-boxing session that I ever endured. Why? Because there are so many components in the box (a good thing, right?), I struggled with how to arrange everything. Do I dare punch out the pieces when I don\'t know how to use them yet? What should I bag together? Do I need to read the entire rulebook to figure out how to best store the pieces? (The answer to that last question is YES. Only after you know the game quite well will you come to grasp how to best store the components.) Labels have been placed on each group of components on the cardboard punch-out  sheets. So as I punched out each set of cardboard components, I bagged and wrote a note with that label. This process took a couple hours! But I sort of enjoy this process and the challenge of storage. Later on, I started combining elements in bags in ways that made sense to me (with my initial limited understanding of game play). But as I learned the game more, I found some of those groupings didn\'t make good sense and I rearranged them. I finally decided to group components by the five game-play modes and sorting character cards by each character (and leaving all the minis in their own holder). This helps get the game out of the box and back onto the table, but it\'s still a challenge setting up the game. (But luckily I\'m sort of masochistic in this respect and enjoy the process.)  WRAP-UP I wish the game designers the best of luck with this game. Ike and his crew ran one of the best Kickstarter campaigns that I have ever witnessed. He has been so responsive to supporter requests and tried to make this game fit the desires of everyone. I want to see him create more games to fill out his Bantam world. But I\'m concerned about the attention to game play mechanics.   Would I support another game in this line? I don\'t think so. In the 21st century, game play mechanics need to receive greater attention. Would I support an expansion for Bantam West? Maybe. Probably. I look forward to seeing additional terrain tiles. I want to see how the unused icons on the game boards will be put into use!   Even with my misgivings (which maybe I\'ve stressed too strongly), this is a fascinating game.', 'rating': '7.5'}, {'username': 'GateauDeLune', 'comment': 'Kickstarter.  Funded: August 12, 2021 Estimated: December 2022 Received: November 14, 2023', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GattoNero25', 'comment': 'Shadow Governour Pledge', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'GeekyBron', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge Completed Survey Oct 27, 2021 Includes: - Base game - All unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals - Metal Coins - Terrain Upgrade Pack - Upgraded First Player Token - Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard - Game Trayz', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GmanJ', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - due Nov-Dec 2024 [revised from September 2023] [revised from March to May 2023 [revised from December 2022] The Shadow Governors Pledge (US$150.00) - inc Bantam West Base Game (US$97.00) - inc Metal Coins (US$21.00) - inc Terrain Upgrade Pack (US$24.00) - inc Upgraded First Player Token (US$10.00) - inc Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard (US$15.00) + Card Sleeves (US$14.00) Shipping (US$14.00) https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/bantamplanet/bantam-west/description Look out for Enemy Upgrade Pack (stretch goal not met)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Gypsypunx', 'comment': 'EN edition. «Home on the range» pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hbksean', 'comment': 'Have played through just the intro, but there is huge potential for this game and I look forward to playing more complex scenarios', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'hiimjohn', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Game', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'HoserBelow', 'comment': 'TT', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hunterrogue', 'comment': 'Why play this when you can play Western Legends?  Mechanics are fiddly, combat very much so.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'imadeadend', 'comment': 'The rulebook is just straight up bad. Missing rules entirely (where does my character start?), lacks a ton of clarity, and has sections that conflict directly with the section that follows. Could barely get through a learning game and won’t be playing again.', 'rating': '3'}, {'username': 'jcustar07', 'comment': 'backed on KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jkozycz', 'comment': "Scratched an itch I've had in relation to sandbox style board games. Enjoyed the feeling of exploration and lore. Felt like there were so many options to create your own path. Daunting the first time, but more intuitive than it seems. Looking forward to what new adventures await in the future of Bantam Planet!", 'rating': '9.5'}, {'username': 'John163', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jo_Kari', 'comment': "This game is a great example of innovation. It takes the open world genre you'd expect to find in video games and refines it for a board game experience. The engaging but familiar skill based mechanics allow any player to immediately jump in and start exploring this vast world without first having to circumnavigate an unyielding learning curve. And the combat, oh! A deceptively simple system inspired by 'rock, paper, scissors' that somehow has the scope to tell new and exciting stories every time. The first time I played, I was hiding out in an abandoned shack till a rival gunslinger came barging in looking for my head and proposed to remove it from my shoulders. In the ensuing fight, we swung at each other around this dingy cabin till I shattered a window and leapt out. As I fled across the river, my rival stood outside firing pop shots into the water, desperate to catch me. But I was too quick and vanished into the trees. Now, I didn't have to work very hard to picture this story, the game told me this narrative with little more than a few cards with just a couple of words apiece. It truly is ingenious. I cannot recommend this game enough. Make sure you pick it up when the campaign launches!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'JTQuest', 'comment': 'KS ETA DEC 2022', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'KatDaddy', 'comment': 'A bad rule book is unforgivable!!!', 'rating': '5'}, {'username': 'kusti0152', 'comment': 'Based on introduction scenario. This was disappointement.I can see potential of this game but a way how you try to teach this game is not a good solution.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'landon1013', 'comment': 'I have only played the intro level, I need to re-rate after playing the "full" version of the game.  Category 0-5 Rating Experience (35%) - 4.5 Mechanics (20%) - 4 Involvement (20%) - 4 Game Length (10%) - 4 Weight of Game (10%) - 4 Aesthetics (5%) - 4 Score - 83.5 Star Rating - 8.35', 'rating': '8.35'}, {'username': 'Larryoturnbull', 'comment': 'Fantastic game with what looks like room to grow. Made use of FAQ, glossary and index. Played each mode and enjoyed the modes theme. Would have given it a 10 if it was easier to read the small text size in some important rules. Bring your magnifying glass and burn the west to the ground!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'LeonM19', 'comment': 'What a great game... a plethora of options what to do... a lot of stratrgy that can get quite complex the game is pretty modular and the thematic catched me.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'marcodegoede', 'comment': "Difficult to learn (lot of rules) but good to play after one try. We're going to play it again", 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'MaxBantamPlanet', 'comment': 'Best game ever? Ok fine, I am a little biased ; )', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'merlinsmess', 'comment': 'Kickstarter first 500', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'MigNix', 'comment': 'Seen this game evolve into one of the most special tabletop experiences I have ever had the pleasure of playing. The designer Ike Bruncardi should be proud of what he has accomplished. The level of detail is outstanding even in the prototype and I am so excited to see the final version... This is one of those rare gems to that will hopefully take the gaming world by storm to allow the world building to be expanded. Seriously impressive... Just Wow!', 'rating': '8.9'}, {'username': 'minh_han', 'comment': "I had been following this game since its beginnings on Kickstarter. Just the attention to detail during the planning and production of the game, along with extensive check-ins from the developers, made me look forward to getting it into my hands. When it arrived and I unboxed it, it did not disappoint. And, there's just SO MUCH there! The box is PACKED with material. The artwork and thematics are amazing. The quality of the materials is top notch. From the minis to the player boards to the linen-finished cards, everything feels so good in my hands. Unpacking it and putting everything in some semblance of order did take quite a while. I kinda regret not splurging on the Gametrayz insert. It would have made ordering the components much easier. And I wish the game came with more bags and of different sizes. I raided my bag collection to get all the components separated.  I just had my first ever play of the game with 3 people. Even watching the How To video on the game website, setting up the game for the first time was a bit intimidating. There's A LOT there. But once we started to play, things fell into place pretty quickly. After a short while, the actions and options became fairly intuitive. One thing that could have been explained a bit better is getting out of town to the outskirts. Because the Warm Welcome intro game only uses two boards, there are only two real ways out of the town in order to Endeavor. Also, it was unclear to us if one automatically transported to the outskirts tile once getting to the edge of town, or if that was another step. We might have spent more Grit than necessary moving from one place to another.   For me, the Warm Welcome intro game was just long enough to fill an evening, especially after spending 20 min to watch the How To Play video and another 15 min to set up the game. We fumbled through our first play, clarifying actions and rules as we went along. I think any more than what we did would have been overwhelming. After a few rounds, we got into the swing of things quickly. My buddy won with all four missions accomplished, while I only completed one, lol. I look forward to playing it again and diving in deeper into the game.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Moppersmurf', 'comment': 'M.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'motchismo', 'comment': 'KS DLX', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'murki', 'comment': 'to follow', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Not_People', 'comment': "A neat sandbox western that walks you through increasingly complex rules via different scenario setups.  However, not our favorite sandbox game.  And due to the increasing scenario complexity you will always be starting less interesting plays when you bring in new people.  Unless you push them to advanced play right away, which may overload them with choice.  Having something like the ambitions from Outer Rim would help direct new players who want to start off in an advanced mode.  Regardless, we didn't find a whole lot calling us to come back to this one.  Also, oddly, the advanced side of the boards switch graphics from day to night and are less nice to look at overall.  So once everyone gets accustomed to the game repeated plays happen on the uglier side of the boards.", 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'panamajr', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Parabellum76', 'comment': 'Talk about inclusive character design... 4 initial characters to choose from and by some "miracle" they happen cover the full spectrum, by todays holier than thou standards, which also now blends into board game designs for better or worse.   Something for everybody to pick from, I know which character would be first pick for most gamers though.   I am just not convinced the distribution and mix of characters is realistic for the time period and therefore I am out. Not for me.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'paulrrahn', 'comment': 'Estimated delivery Dec 2022 (Nov 2023)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'pbrunica', 'comment': 'Kickstarter backed. Ends August 12, 2021. Motto: Wish you were here!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Poins', 'comment': '+ Dead Settlers Map', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'PPMP', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'puggi', 'comment': 'A few months ago, I made the decision to expand my board game collection with games that can fill an entire evening in terms of gameplay length and immersion. For each classic theme, I aimed to have at least one of these "big games," as I like to call them. Something like "Nemesis for space and aliens, Everrain for seafaring, Spring and Autumn for China," and so on. Bantam was my hope for representing the big game in the Western theme, and what can I say... 10/10, jackpot, bullseye, pick your favorite expression. This game has such a great variety of possibilities, each game is different. And the best part: no matter which way you choose, you can make points with it. I saw someone winning with killing every NPC he could find, I saw someone winning with selling wood…. This game is wonderful. Strategy tip: for experienced player (e.g. Brass Level) I encourage you to directly start with Master of Chaos, I tried it two times with different 4P-groups and each time it worked after two turns. A much greater game experience than the tutorial', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'rarroyo', 'comment': '100 Bantam Planet', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'RebJaenus', 'comment': "Cool, open world, western themed Immersive Tabletop Sim (their term).  Has a lot going on and is less fun with less of the stuff added.  Also needs to be played with the right mindset.  If played as a simple race to X number of points, nobody has much fun, because the point goals are a touch too easy, but if played with the open world, exploration mindset, it's very fun.", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'rendezvous_salatiga', 'comment': 'Great Sandbox Game', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'rigogarcia', 'comment': "Great game! My partner went in completely cold (hadn't read the rulebook), and I got her running within 20min. The ruleset and game mechanics are so intuitive. I can't wait to continue integrating additional gameplay features into future play throughs.  Solid design. Highly recommend! Great job, Ike and team! :)", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'Rivka', 'comment': 'Played at a library game session. Pros: interesting theme, high quality components, reasonable learning curve. Cons: definitely on the longer side of the time estimate (could easily take all afternoon), lots of fiddly components', 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'Saw_Dust_Muncher', 'comment': "I love the them, mechanics, and team that put this together, can't wait to see what they do next", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Secrethippy', 'comment': 'Just a really fun game, with loads of variety and paths to choose on your way to victory. Player interaction can be as much or as little as you want it to be. The way the game build up the modules is great. There’s just so much to do. 100% recommend', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'SentoTM', 'comment': 'No suelen morarme tanto tanto estos juegos, pero me llama. El Oeste siempre me llama... Bandolerooooooo', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sierosehero', 'comment': 'Deutsche Version', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sordeq', 'comment': 'Always a fun time. Every time we play it, even the teaching games are a blast.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'SupermanDX', 'comment': "Mark won via contest. He'll pass on whenever it's delivered.", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'SUPRAMAN79', 'comment': 'Amazing game. Backed this as I was a massive fan of Western Legends but this game is Western Legends x 100. So many ways to score points. Yet to win a game but still keen to play and play again', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'TableForTwoPlayers', 'comment': "Bantam West is an incredibly thematic, immersive simulation/sandbox game.  So much so that even when the game end is triggered, I want to keep going just to see what buttons I can push and levers I can pull.  It strikes a good balance between being a strategic action efficiency game and having just enough luck to do the wild west theme justice.  There are lots of interesting decisions to be made: how much precious time/resources do I spend leveling up my character before I pursue victory points?  Do I spend my hard earned resources to level up my endeavor, making it easier to get them in the future, or do I sell them for cash?  At the same time, the random elements lead to moments of tension, excitement, and emergent storytelling.  The biggest downside to me is, because this game is such a detailed simulation, it is a tough teach.  When we played the intro scenario, it took quite a long time to teach, yet for all that, the actual gameplay was dead simple.  It felt like that initial scenario was a lot of work for little payoff, because it was very short, and half the mechanics in the game were not available to us.  I don't really see a way around this because any additional mechanics might have been too much for a first play, but it left us a bit unsatisfied.  Once we got to the Shadow Governor's scenario though, everything opened up and we were very glad we stuck with it.  Overall, I thoroughly enjoy this one, and can't wait to get it to the table again.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Teslavstwain', 'comment': 'Such a fun, unique game! A lot to think about and heavy on setup, but so much fun packed into one box! I love the different take on deck-fighting and the many options for things to do on a turn. Highly recommend this one and am hopeful I am getting my hands on a copy through a friend!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'tgravil', 'comment': 'My new favorite board game.  Lots to do in an open world environment. They definitely knock this game out of the park on their first try! Looking forward to expansions.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Thing12Games', 'comment': 'GREAT game with a REALLY bad rule book. Worth struggling through the rules and ambiguity though.  Kinda feels like a western Xia.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'VetruvianGamer', 'comment': '3-4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'VittorioV', 'comment': 'Unique and fun boardgame', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'VJBeam', 'comment': 'I’ve been very lucky to get to play Bantam West over the last 6 months and have seen it continue to develop to a point now that this game really is something special! It’s one of those EPIC games!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Wreckage', 'comment': 'I like the theme, naturally, and from talking with the amazing access they provide I like it even more.  This one will be highly anticipated.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'YogiBaldGuru', 'comment': 'En', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'zenmazster', 'comment': "Solo'ing now to be able to teach it to game group next week.  Seems cool and vast with a lot of possibilities.  You'll for sure need a magnifying glass to read important info on some cards.  It's an odd production choice.  Take the smallest text you've seen on cards and shrink it another 50%.  That's my only complaint so far, game looks great besides that.  Random: i will say squarely between pages 8-9 was one of the coolest and most interesting things ive seen in a rulebook.  Its the fun touches like that that add tons of personality to the game.  Fun fact, before i realized what it was was, i thought it was a ton of ants that had somehoW invaded my rulebook and i threw it in the air and screamed LOL.  It looks soo real.", 'rating': 'n/a'}], 'name': 'Bantam West'})
('game', {'comments': [{'username': 'ADHDefn', 'comment': 'Won via the #onboardolympics', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Aglarendil', 'comment': 'Really nice, original mechanics, as idea, and open to dovelopment. Mats really good, a kick well made. Hoping they can improve solo mode because big part of experience it’s related to more players, now, maybe. I will improve the solo mode.  Anyway, if I can imagine some add on I guess: 1-  EVENT CARD Are funny but few. But they can really improve experience and consent to better stay in old west. Cause of cost of cards I suggest an axpansion with app or a rich book (like in THIS WAR OF MINE”. 2- SCENARIOS with story. The game has been really well made and give a lot of possibility. It is a really open system, so we can build also some movies expansions western movies dedicated… 3- RULEBOOK is well made but really some infos are too few explained, need to improve explocations, specially about movement; 4- CHARACTERS. We can build a Character Creating System. My idea is to do a mix question/answer system and dice, where you choose something about you, your story, your family, your experience and the sistem lead you to build different characters, maybe with personal life objective; 5- STORYTELLING . Because of the nature of game, we feel to find a personal experience, the system consent it. So, even if someone don’t like (but have commercial good results- see Pandemic serie…) is possible propose some legacy expansions, where you have unique scenarios but with each of them you don’t lose your money because you can find new cards and maps that you can use expanding your collection.  Many things to do! Ike… put peoples at work!1 hahahha', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'amanal_lake', 'comment': 'I threw away 2 of the Gametrayz as to get the game in the box. There is a lack of detail here that has me concerned about the game play.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'Annihalus', 'comment': 'This was a disappointment for me. I love the artwork. I like how sandbox it is. Components were good. I found the characters uninteresting and not very unique, just slightly different. Will admit hype may have been high.', 'rating': '4'}, {'username': 'armor_11', 'comment': "Managed to get a three player game of this in on Tabletop Simulator.  I don't own the physical game yet, but I have backed it on Kickstarter.  Although I have only scratched the surface of the game, we had a blast playing.  There are many paths to victory and the theme is rich and deep.  There are trophies to acquire, physical combat, NPC's to contend with, skill development, the list goes on and on. When they say that this is a sandbox game, they aren't kidding. But that doesn't mean that this is a ruleset looking for a game. It's just that you can win the game a variety of ways. I'm REALLY looking forward to getting my copy. ", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'benztowner', 'comment': 'German Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bhb_cosmos', 'comment': 'Best for 4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BlackRum', 'comment': 'Rating after Intro and first glance on full ruleset. This looks like a potential Golden Geek Game  Update: 10/10 after Playing the Master of Chaos Version. Best Big Game 2023 from my POV.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'boardgamedoktor', 'comment': 'Backerkit, Bedesbach', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bpa7403', 'comment': 'Great Experience, and I really enjoyed it. A lot of unique things going on in this game. It is one of those games that just let you have fun and have an imagination. I kind of compare it to Red Dead Redemption. It\'s a big open-world game and has different pathways to victory. If you like pulling off goals and tasks, this one is for you. The goals and tasks are random for each character in every game. I love the rock-paper-scissors combat mechanic and how you can augment it with weapons and items. The way some items can be used in combat, or they can be exhausted during gameplay.  The resource generation with the cabin is great. The various ways you earn points in the game can be a lot, but it does not feel overwhelming. My favorite is the Bank Note. Since I have played with everything, it will be hard to play it without everything. The game allows you to use your imagination. The game is its own thematic animal. There are also extra things in the game that cannot be utilized yet (future expansion material). I am glad they plan on expanding on the game. I love what the creator is doing with the whole Bantam Planet website. The artwork in the game is amazing. There are a few things I did have some concerns with. Some of the inserts did not fit sleeved cards. However, I did come up with my own solution until they fix the issue. I wish there was more characters to choose from. I will say that the rule book is a little rough. However, the game\'s creators in the forums respond to rule questions regularly. The solo is really fun, however, If you can\'t take a thematic loss at the end then this one is not for you. Yes, you can die in the solo and the game is over and you have to restart. There is no re-spawn in solo. There is some "take that" in it. Which I love. But some gamers have hard times recovering from a swingy loss and may make their experience not good. If you use your "don\'t take that" handicap card, then this one is not for you. Sometimes the player interaction can be very minimal if none at all.  I love the events, however I wish there were more than just 54 and in solo, you only utilize only a few of those. Some of the events go back into the deck until you can master what the event is requiring.  There seems to be some things missing, but from what I can tell, they may or will be included in future expansions (like the train). You cannot use the train station for anything yet. The game boards do feel disconnected from each other, but not a big deal. Not a big deal for me, but the game is a table hog and may take some time to setup and play based on player count and experience. I usually do not like dice rolling to decide things, however there is some dice mitigation and re-rolls. Lastly, unfortunately I am not going to compare it to other games. Yeah, it may have taken some mechanics from other games. But there are many games out there that do that exact same thing and gamers still play them. I feel this game will open up new ways for other games to be developed. Thanks for reading and have fun.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'bramadan', 'comment': 'To Try', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BrandonCrul', 'comment': 'The Shadow Governors Hide details The frontier looks even more beautiful through the eyes of the Shadow Governors. You will receive your very own physical copy of Bantam West plus all unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals, Metal Coins, Terrain Upgrade Pack, Upgraded First Player Token, and a signed Postcard!  This item does not include shipping. You will be asked to pay it after Kickstarter ends from the Pledge Manager. See the shipping section for more details.  INCLUDES: Bantam West Base Game All Unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals Metal Coins Terrain Upgrade Pack Upgraded First Player Token Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard  + Card Sleeves', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Bricklebrit_Games', 'comment': 'I just unboxed it. I will return to rate and review shortly.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bwohmie', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge - Like New', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'chicobrew', 'comment': "Such a great game. I really hope for expansions. Can't say enough about how great it is. Only critique is the organization of the rulebook. It's not bad. But could be better. And I Hope for some exploration tiles next round", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'cmlee1017', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DButts', 'comment': "Great open sandbox game, you can decide how you want to play and aim for that and then react as other things happen and change things if needed. So many cool stories that come out when you play. Great game!! Can't wait for my copy to arrive!!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'deeplydapper', 'comment': "Kickstarter: Shadow Governer's Pledge", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'devilq8', 'comment': 'Governor pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DiceQueen27', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Dickhillman', 'comment': 'May Sell', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'dingo76', 'comment': 'Sandbox- Western.. :-) So cool. Sometimes, a crazy Manual ;-), but if you understand it, it is very easy, so many oppinions to play with you char. a realy great game. i love it.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'D_B_Games', 'comment': 'I have played with the designer Ike and some other fine folk online. This game is absolutely amazing. It is complex, well thought out and gives tonnes of choice. Wonderful stories and fun times are to be had here for sure. Highly recommended!!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Erikk78', 'comment': "Rating after the 'warm up' scenarios. Not impressed yet, but lets see where it goes.", 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'evkefalas', 'comment': 'Home on the Range pledge Plus all sgs', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'fODDER841', 'comment': 'Have had a great time playing this on BGA a number of times.  Really looking forward to the physical copy.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'futari', 'comment': '2024 59,49€', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'garyjgeoaccess', 'comment': 'UPDATED AFTER A RECENT PAIR OF GAMES.  Simply put, Bantam West looks great sitting on the table. The layout is top notch. The character models are very good, and they come with a wash already applied so that you don\'t really even need to paint them. They look great right out of the box. And the box itself is stuffed with content, for the various game modes, from the Warm Welcome introductory mode to the Solo mode.   The game designer was very responsive throughout the entire Kickstarter campaign. For a first time game developer using Kickstarter for the first time, the campaign went very well. It was a model of how to run your first Kickstarter (and reminded me favorably of Obsession, also by a first-timer).   This one was my most eagerly anticipated and awaited titles (at least of the past couple years). But I have to admit the game play at first came as a disappointment. Nonetheless, the game is growing on me! The game play mechanics contain nothing new or innovative. But games are almost always filled with tension.   SOLO GAME PLAY To see what I\'m talking about regarding game play mechanics, it\'s useful to examine how the Solo game works, in which you get tasks that are little more than busy work. The first task simply has you move to your choice of four destinations, pick up a token, and return to the saloon with it. Then you have to venture onto terrain tiles and do enough logging that you can build a cabin. Next up, you have to work on endeavoring in all four types so that you can reap the benefits by making money, buying weapons, buying a horse, etc. In short, you have to do the standard business of the game. But this business has little sense of strategy when played in solo mode. Again, it\'s busy work. And I don\'t need games that provide simple dice rolling mechanics, and that\'s what we have here. I want game mechanics that really push me to think strategically (as in Legends of Andor, for example). And this game comes up way short in this respect.   If you are drawn to this game because it supposedly supports solo play, you will likely be in for a big disappointment. However, there is a lot to like in Bantam West ... see the next section.  MULTI-PLAYER GAMEs Okay, forget about Solo mode. This is NOT a good solo game. But how does it do as a multi-player game? Here, the results are much more encouraging. The gameplay is in fact quite enjoyable as the characters roam around old West locations. It\'s all about earning "notoriety." There are STANDARD ways players can earn notoriety. But each player also gets a TO-DO list that provides additional opportunities. Plus as players tackle the game\'s more advanced modes, more mechanics for earning notoriety become available, such as hiring "riders" and tackling a variety of "pursuits," or by depositing money in the bank and watching the balance grow (this strikes me as a strange mechanic for a western game!). The game gives players a broad canvas upon which to play out their western fantasies.   Play against real-live opponents works better than the game\'s solo mode not because the game mechanics are any better (the mechanics are exactly the same), but because now the players are in competition to acquire notoriety. So in head-to-head competition, the game play does have some tension, as players rush to check off items on their to-do lists and otherwise acquire notoriety by any means necessary.   I\'m not a big fan of the "Varied To-Do Lists," which sometimes are just plain unfair, given the character that a player might draw. There can be a complete disconnect between the character and the tasks on their to-do list. We have instead tried playing with the introductory to-do list for all our games, flipping the list to the B side after all players players have completed this A side. But admittedly, this keeps some of the character quirks (such as Hannah\'s pyromania) from playing out.   I might have some misgivings about the game play mechanics, but this is a fun game when played against one or more opponents, as you watch the characters struggle in the Old West. This game is all about theme.    THEME VS. MECHANICS Bantam West is for people who want to spend time in the old west, to walk the streets of a western town, to strike out into the harsh land on their own, to prospect, to forage, to hunt, to cut down trees. It allows you to torch all the buildings and cabins that you want (think HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER or UNFORGIVEN). It allows you to make your fortune mining (think TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE or PAINT YOUR WAGON). It allows you to become a minor lumber baron (think BIG TREES and COME AND GET IT). It allows you spend time at a saloon swilling down brews (movies too numerous to mention).   The game allows players to live in a world that scratches that itch for rolling back the clock 150 years and living on the American frontier. The game does not do this with game play that is new or surprising. On the contrary, the game play mechanics are unimaginative. For example, how does any player mine? They roll two dice. How does any player cut down trees? They roll two dice. How does any player hunt? You get it. They roll two dice. Etc. Each player starts with exactly the same level at the various endeavors, and then depending on how much they perform a given endeavor, their proficiency level increases. This is a strange game play choice given that each character has an array of skill ratings. You might think a character with more strength might be better at being a lumberjack, but no, all characters are totally equal in this respect. A character might be better at sneaking or negotiating or malice, but these SKILLS have little effect on how a character performs one of the main endeavors. This game-design decision was undoubtedly made so that the characters would start on a relatively level playing field (i.e., so that no one character would have a significant advantage over the rest), but it does have the effect of making the characters less impactful than their array of skill ratings might suggest.   No, this is NOT a game in which the developers came up with interesting game mechanics that they THEN wrapped with theme. This is a game that places a very high premium on building the western theme FIRST with game-play mechanics in the background, supporting that theme, allowing that theme to come to life. This is a decidedly old-fashioned approach to game design. Developers have moved away from this approach over the past couple of decades in favor of euro game mechanics. But Bantam West adheres to an older approach in which theme is everything and lackluster game play mechanics are forgiven.   Hey, I enjoy playing old-style games that are all about theme. Arkham Horror (the board game) was THE game that pulled me into the board gaming hobby nearly twenty years ago--and it\'s about as ugly (in terms of game mechanics) as a game can get. I enjoy good game mechanics but I also insist on themes that I find intriguing (such as the old West!). So how does Bantam West do on these terms? Read on.  THEME AND THE FUTURE Bantam West MOSTLY gets the western theme right. Yay! The game designers truly wanted to deliver a game that oozes the Old West from every element on the board. And on those terms the designers have succeeded.   I question some of their decisions, such as why so much pyromania? Alligators, really? Foraging? Huh. Where are the cattle herds? Where are the sod busters? Where are the cattle towns? But this stuff can and maybe will be added in expansions.   A railroad station is on the town tile, in the lower left corner. It doesn\'t do anything yet, but I feel confident it WILL in an expansion. Other hints -- e.g., a corn plant on an unused icon suggests farm land might be in the offing and a wagon wheel on another icon suggests a pioneer trail might be coming on a future terrain tile -- hints like these bode well for the game\'s future . The game can grow and become a more complete portrayal of life in the west. Players could conceivably even mix and match terrain tiles so the game play fits their expectations for a particular vision of the American western, or a view of the spaghetti western. (Maybe? Not sure that will ever happen, but one can hope.)  MORE GAME PLAY PARTICULARS (THE COMBAT DECK) Here is an example of a game-design decision that seems sort of strange to me. Consider the combat deck. At the start of the game, this is a simple deck of nine cards. Each character gets their own deck, with a third of these cards being customized for that character, with the other two thirds being standard combat cards. Players can add to this deck with combat cards acquired from the Gunsmith shop. During a fight, players don\'t know which cards they will draw to their hand until the combat has started--unless they launch an ambush--so the players decide to fight and THEN they find out what cards they have in their hand. Notice this is very different from games like Mage Knight, for example, in which everything a player does comes from the puzzle of the player\'s deck. Mage Knight makes every turn a puzzle, in which the player must figure out how to accomplish what they want to do given the cards in their hand. Bantam West doesn\'t give the players that puzzle. The players decide to fight first and then they are given a hand of cards to use. This seems backwards to me and it robs Bantam West of strategic decisions in favor of simple rock-paper-scissors mechanics. I don\'t really like how weapons only come into play if you\'re lucky enough to draw them. Otherwise, a player might be using their standard combat cards (brawl, tackle, block, etc.), unless again, it\'s an ambush. Only in an ambush can a player choose their first card. The game deserves a better system for fighting.  ABOUT THE RULE BOOK ... Like the game itself, the rulebook looks great.  There are lots of examples and illustrations to help players understand how this complex game works. But the rulebook only scratches the surface and doesn\'t provide many answers. It was evidently written by somewhat so familiar with the game that they had lost all sense of perspective on what NEW players needed to know. They assumed so much of the game is self-evident, such as the store interactions, which are not defined anywhere. Players must interpret the brief text and icons, but these store interaction spaces are NOT always self-evident. Some are quite difficult to decipher.  I\'ll use cabins as an example of what\'s wrong with the rule book. A section on "Building Cabins" provides many of the answers about how cabins work, but it doesn\'t provide everything. There is no one place in the rulebook that explains everything on the cabin cards. To learn what the resource/fire icons mean, you must turn to the section on Arson. To learn about the skill icon at the top of the card (in a triangle with the black background), you must turn to the section on fighting. In other words, for the resource/fire icons and the skill icon, players must know the purpose of the icon before they can find an explanation in the rulebook. I\'m going to repeat this because it\'s very important: To find an explanation in the rulebook, players frequently must already understand the purpose of the icon or the token or the whatever. This approach is not helpful for new players. A better approach would have been to explain in a quick summary everything on the cabin card and to supply page numbers and section title references for additional information. This is a problem repeated over and over in the rulebook, in which information is scattered throughout the pages. I wish the game had provided a reference manual that went over everything in detail, instead of this frequently scattershot approach.  UNBOXING AND STORAGE Yikes. This was probably the longest un-boxing session that I ever endured. Why? Because there are so many components in the box (a good thing, right?), I struggled with how to arrange everything. Do I dare punch out the pieces when I don\'t know how to use them yet? What should I bag together? Do I need to read the entire rulebook to figure out how to best store the pieces? (The answer to that last question is YES. Only after you know the game quite well will you come to grasp how to best store the components.) Labels have been placed on each group of components on the cardboard punch-out  sheets. So as I punched out each set of cardboard components, I bagged and wrote a note with that label. This process took a couple hours! But I sort of enjoy this process and the challenge of storage. Later on, I started combining elements in bags in ways that made sense to me (with my initial limited understanding of game play). But as I learned the game more, I found some of those groupings didn\'t make good sense and I rearranged them. I finally decided to group components by the five game-play modes and sorting character cards by each character (and leaving all the minis in their own holder). This helps get the game out of the box and back onto the table, but it\'s still a challenge setting up the game. (But luckily I\'m sort of masochistic in this respect and enjoy the process.)  WRAP-UP I wish the game designers the best of luck with this game. Ike and his crew ran one of the best Kickstarter campaigns that I have ever witnessed. He has been so responsive to supporter requests and tried to make this game fit the desires of everyone. I want to see him create more games to fill out his Bantam world. But I\'m concerned about the attention to game play mechanics.   Would I support another game in this line? I don\'t think so. In the 21st century, game play mechanics need to receive greater attention. Would I support an expansion for Bantam West? Maybe. Probably. I look forward to seeing additional terrain tiles. I want to see how the unused icons on the game boards will be put into use!   Even with my misgivings (which maybe I\'ve stressed too strongly), this is a fascinating game.', 'rating': '7.5'}, {'username': 'GateauDeLune', 'comment': 'Kickstarter.  Funded: August 12, 2021 Estimated: December 2022 Received: November 14, 2023', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GattoNero25', 'comment': 'Shadow Governour Pledge', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'GeekyBron', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge Completed Survey Oct 27, 2021 Includes: - Base game - All unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals - Metal Coins - Terrain Upgrade Pack - Upgraded First Player Token - Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard - Game Trayz', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GmanJ', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - due Nov-Dec 2024 [revised from September 2023] [revised from March to May 2023 [revised from December 2022] The Shadow Governors Pledge (US$150.00) - inc Bantam West Base Game (US$97.00) - inc Metal Coins (US$21.00) - inc Terrain Upgrade Pack (US$24.00) - inc Upgraded First Player Token (US$10.00) - inc Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard (US$15.00) + Card Sleeves (US$14.00) Shipping (US$14.00) https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/bantamplanet/bantam-west/description Look out for Enemy Upgrade Pack (stretch goal not met)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Gypsypunx', 'comment': 'EN edition. «Home on the range» pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hbksean', 'comment': 'Have played through just the intro, but there is huge potential for this game and I look forward to playing more complex scenarios', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'hiimjohn', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Game', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'HoserBelow', 'comment': 'TT', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hunterrogue', 'comment': 'Why play this when you can play Western Legends?  Mechanics are fiddly, combat very much so.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'imadeadend', 'comment': 'The rulebook is just straight up bad. Missing rules entirely (where does my character start?), lacks a ton of clarity, and has sections that conflict directly with the section that follows. Could barely get through a learning game and won’t be playing again.', 'rating': '3'}, {'username': 'jcustar07', 'comment': 'backed on KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jkozycz', 'comment': "Scratched an itch I've had in relation to sandbox style board games. Enjoyed the feeling of exploration and lore. Felt like there were so many options to create your own path. Daunting the first time, but more intuitive than it seems. Looking forward to what new adventures await in the future of Bantam Planet!", 'rating': '9.5'}, {'username': 'John163', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jo_Kari', 'comment': "This game is a great example of innovation. It takes the open world genre you'd expect to find in video games and refines it for a board game experience. The engaging but familiar skill based mechanics allow any player to immediately jump in and start exploring this vast world without first having to circumnavigate an unyielding learning curve. And the combat, oh! A deceptively simple system inspired by 'rock, paper, scissors' that somehow has the scope to tell new and exciting stories every time. The first time I played, I was hiding out in an abandoned shack till a rival gunslinger came barging in looking for my head and proposed to remove it from my shoulders. In the ensuing fight, we swung at each other around this dingy cabin till I shattered a window and leapt out. As I fled across the river, my rival stood outside firing pop shots into the water, desperate to catch me. But I was too quick and vanished into the trees. Now, I didn't have to work very hard to picture this story, the game told me this narrative with little more than a few cards with just a couple of words apiece. It truly is ingenious. I cannot recommend this game enough. Make sure you pick it up when the campaign launches!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'JTQuest', 'comment': 'KS ETA DEC 2022', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'KatDaddy', 'comment': 'A bad rule book is unforgivable!!!', 'rating': '5'}, {'username': 'kusti0152', 'comment': 'Based on introduction scenario. This was disappointement.I can see potential of this game but a way how you try to teach this game is not a good solution.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'landon1013', 'comment': 'I have only played the intro level, I need to re-rate after playing the "full" version of the game.  Category 0-5 Rating Experience (35%) - 4.5 Mechanics (20%) - 4 Involvement (20%) - 4 Game Length (10%) - 4 Weight of Game (10%) - 4 Aesthetics (5%) - 4 Score - 83.5 Star Rating - 8.35', 'rating': '8.35'}, {'username': 'Larryoturnbull', 'comment': 'Fantastic game with what looks like room to grow. Made use of FAQ, glossary and index. Played each mode and enjoyed the modes theme. Would have given it a 10 if it was easier to read the small text size in some important rules. Bring your magnifying glass and burn the west to the ground!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'LeonM19', 'comment': 'What a great game... a plethora of options what to do... a lot of stratrgy that can get quite complex the game is pretty modular and the thematic catched me.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'marcodegoede', 'comment': "Difficult to learn (lot of rules) but good to play after one try. We're going to play it again", 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'MaxBantamPlanet', 'comment': 'Best game ever? Ok fine, I am a little biased ; )', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'merlinsmess', 'comment': 'Kickstarter first 500', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'MigNix', 'comment': 'Seen this game evolve into one of the most special tabletop experiences I have ever had the pleasure of playing. The designer Ike Bruncardi should be proud of what he has accomplished. The level of detail is outstanding even in the prototype and I am so excited to see the final version... This is one of those rare gems to that will hopefully take the gaming world by storm to allow the world building to be expanded. Seriously impressive... Just Wow!', 'rating': '8.9'}, {'username': 'minh_han', 'comment': "I had been following this game since its beginnings on Kickstarter. Just the attention to detail during the planning and production of the game, along with extensive check-ins from the developers, made me look forward to getting it into my hands. When it arrived and I unboxed it, it did not disappoint. And, there's just SO MUCH there! The box is PACKED with material. The artwork and thematics are amazing. The quality of the materials is top notch. From the minis to the player boards to the linen-finished cards, everything feels so good in my hands. Unpacking it and putting everything in some semblance of order did take quite a while. I kinda regret not splurging on the Gametrayz insert. It would have made ordering the components much easier. And I wish the game came with more bags and of different sizes. I raided my bag collection to get all the components separated.  I just had my first ever play of the game with 3 people. Even watching the How To video on the game website, setting up the game for the first time was a bit intimidating. There's A LOT there. But once we started to play, things fell into place pretty quickly. After a short while, the actions and options became fairly intuitive. One thing that could have been explained a bit better is getting out of town to the outskirts. Because the Warm Welcome intro game only uses two boards, there are only two real ways out of the town in order to Endeavor. Also, it was unclear to us if one automatically transported to the outskirts tile once getting to the edge of town, or if that was another step. We might have spent more Grit than necessary moving from one place to another.   For me, the Warm Welcome intro game was just long enough to fill an evening, especially after spending 20 min to watch the How To Play video and another 15 min to set up the game. We fumbled through our first play, clarifying actions and rules as we went along. I think any more than what we did would have been overwhelming. After a few rounds, we got into the swing of things quickly. My buddy won with all four missions accomplished, while I only completed one, lol. I look forward to playing it again and diving in deeper into the game.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Moppersmurf', 'comment': 'M.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'motchismo', 'comment': 'KS DLX', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'murki', 'comment': 'to follow', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Not_People', 'comment': "A neat sandbox western that walks you through increasingly complex rules via different scenario setups.  However, not our favorite sandbox game.  And due to the increasing scenario complexity you will always be starting less interesting plays when you bring in new people.  Unless you push them to advanced play right away, which may overload them with choice.  Having something like the ambitions from Outer Rim would help direct new players who want to start off in an advanced mode.  Regardless, we didn't find a whole lot calling us to come back to this one.  Also, oddly, the advanced side of the boards switch graphics from day to night and are less nice to look at overall.  So once everyone gets accustomed to the game repeated plays happen on the uglier side of the boards.", 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'panamajr', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Parabellum76', 'comment': 'Talk about inclusive character design... 4 initial characters to choose from and by some "miracle" they happen cover the full spectrum, by todays holier than thou standards, which also now blends into board game designs for better or worse.   Something for everybody to pick from, I know which character would be first pick for most gamers though.   I am just not convinced the distribution and mix of characters is realistic for the time period and therefore I am out. Not for me.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'paulrrahn', 'comment': 'Estimated delivery Dec 2022 (Nov 2023)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'pbrunica', 'comment': 'Kickstarter backed. Ends August 12, 2021. Motto: Wish you were here!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Poins', 'comment': '+ Dead Settlers Map', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'PPMP', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'puggi', 'comment': 'A few months ago, I made the decision to expand my board game collection with games that can fill an entire evening in terms of gameplay length and immersion. For each classic theme, I aimed to have at least one of these "big games," as I like to call them. Something like "Nemesis for space and aliens, Everrain for seafaring, Spring and Autumn for China," and so on. Bantam was my hope for representing the big game in the Western theme, and what can I say... 10/10, jackpot, bullseye, pick your favorite expression. This game has such a great variety of possibilities, each game is different. And the best part: no matter which way you choose, you can make points with it. I saw someone winning with killing every NPC he could find, I saw someone winning with selling wood…. This game is wonderful. Strategy tip: for experienced player (e.g. Brass Level) I encourage you to directly start with Master of Chaos, I tried it two times with different 4P-groups and each time it worked after two turns. A much greater game experience than the tutorial', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'rarroyo', 'comment': '100 Bantam Planet', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'RebJaenus', 'comment': "Cool, open world, western themed Immersive Tabletop Sim (their term).  Has a lot going on and is less fun with less of the stuff added.  Also needs to be played with the right mindset.  If played as a simple race to X number of points, nobody has much fun, because the point goals are a touch too easy, but if played with the open world, exploration mindset, it's very fun.", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'rendezvous_salatiga', 'comment': 'Great Sandbox Game', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'rigogarcia', 'comment': "Great game! My partner went in completely cold (hadn't read the rulebook), and I got her running within 20min. The ruleset and game mechanics are so intuitive. I can't wait to continue integrating additional gameplay features into future play throughs.  Solid design. Highly recommend! Great job, Ike and team! :)", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'Rivka', 'comment': 'Played at a library game session. Pros: interesting theme, high quality components, reasonable learning curve. Cons: definitely on the longer side of the time estimate (could easily take all afternoon), lots of fiddly components', 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'Saw_Dust_Muncher', 'comment': "I love the them, mechanics, and team that put this together, can't wait to see what they do next", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Secrethippy', 'comment': 'Just a really fun game, with loads of variety and paths to choose on your way to victory. Player interaction can be as much or as little as you want it to be. The way the game build up the modules is great. There’s just so much to do. 100% recommend', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'SentoTM', 'comment': 'No suelen morarme tanto tanto estos juegos, pero me llama. El Oeste siempre me llama... Bandolerooooooo', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sierosehero', 'comment': 'Deutsche Version', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sordeq', 'comment': 'Always a fun time. Every time we play it, even the teaching games are a blast.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'SupermanDX', 'comment': "Mark won via contest. He'll pass on whenever it's delivered.", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'SUPRAMAN79', 'comment': 'Amazing game. Backed this as I was a massive fan of Western Legends but this game is Western Legends x 100. So many ways to score points. Yet to win a game but still keen to play and play again', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'TableForTwoPlayers', 'comment': "Bantam West is an incredibly thematic, immersive simulation/sandbox game.  So much so that even when the game end is triggered, I want to keep going just to see what buttons I can push and levers I can pull.  It strikes a good balance between being a strategic action efficiency game and having just enough luck to do the wild west theme justice.  There are lots of interesting decisions to be made: how much precious time/resources do I spend leveling up my character before I pursue victory points?  Do I spend my hard earned resources to level up my endeavor, making it easier to get them in the future, or do I sell them for cash?  At the same time, the random elements lead to moments of tension, excitement, and emergent storytelling.  The biggest downside to me is, because this game is such a detailed simulation, it is a tough teach.  When we played the intro scenario, it took quite a long time to teach, yet for all that, the actual gameplay was dead simple.  It felt like that initial scenario was a lot of work for little payoff, because it was very short, and half the mechanics in the game were not available to us.  I don't really see a way around this because any additional mechanics might have been too much for a first play, but it left us a bit unsatisfied.  Once we got to the Shadow Governor's scenario though, everything opened up and we were very glad we stuck with it.  Overall, I thoroughly enjoy this one, and can't wait to get it to the table again.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Teslavstwain', 'comment': 'Such a fun, unique game! A lot to think about and heavy on setup, but so much fun packed into one box! I love the different take on deck-fighting and the many options for things to do on a turn. Highly recommend this one and am hopeful I am getting my hands on a copy through a friend!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'tgravil', 'comment': 'My new favorite board game.  Lots to do in an open world environment. They definitely knock this game out of the park on their first try! Looking forward to expansions.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Thing12Games', 'comment': 'GREAT game with a REALLY bad rule book. Worth struggling through the rules and ambiguity though.  Kinda feels like a western Xia.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'VetruvianGamer', 'comment': '3-4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'VittorioV', 'comment': 'Unique and fun boardgame', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'VJBeam', 'comment': 'I’ve been very lucky to get to play Bantam West over the last 6 months and have seen it continue to develop to a point now that this game really is something special! It’s one of those EPIC games!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Wreckage', 'comment': 'I like the theme, naturally, and from talking with the amazing access they provide I like it even more.  This one will be highly anticipated.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'YogiBaldGuru', 'comment': 'En', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'zenmazster', 'comment': "Solo'ing now to be able to teach it to game group next week.  Seems cool and vast with a lot of possibilities.  You'll for sure need a magnifying glass to read important info on some cards.  It's an odd production choice.  Take the smallest text you've seen on cards and shrink it another 50%.  That's my only complaint so far, game looks great besides that.  Random: i will say squarely between pages 8-9 was one of the coolest and most interesting things ive seen in a rulebook.  Its the fun touches like that that add tons of personality to the game.  Fun fact, before i realized what it was was, i thought it was a ton of ants that had somehoW invaded my rulebook and i threw it in the air and screamed LOL.  It looks soo real.", 'rating': 'n/a'}], 'name': 'Bantam West'})
('game', {'comments': [{'username': 'ADHDefn', 'comment': 'Won via the #onboardolympics', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Aglarendil', 'comment': 'Really nice, original mechanics, as idea, and open to dovelopment. Mats really good, a kick well made. Hoping they can improve solo mode because big part of experience it’s related to more players, now, maybe. I will improve the solo mode.  Anyway, if I can imagine some add on I guess: 1-  EVENT CARD Are funny but few. But they can really improve experience and consent to better stay in old west. Cause of cost of cards I suggest an axpansion with app or a rich book (like in THIS WAR OF MINE”. 2- SCENARIOS with story. The game has been really well made and give a lot of possibility. It is a really open system, so we can build also some movies expansions western movies dedicated… 3- RULEBOOK is well made but really some infos are too few explained, need to improve explocations, specially about movement; 4- CHARACTERS. We can build a Character Creating System. My idea is to do a mix question/answer system and dice, where you choose something about you, your story, your family, your experience and the sistem lead you to build different characters, maybe with personal life objective; 5- STORYTELLING . Because of the nature of game, we feel to find a personal experience, the system consent it. So, even if someone don’t like (but have commercial good results- see Pandemic serie…) is possible propose some legacy expansions, where you have unique scenarios but with each of them you don’t lose your money because you can find new cards and maps that you can use expanding your collection.  Many things to do! Ike… put peoples at work!1 hahahha', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'amanal_lake', 'comment': 'I threw away 2 of the Gametrayz as to get the game in the box. There is a lack of detail here that has me concerned about the game play.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'Annihalus', 'comment': 'This was a disappointment for me. I love the artwork. I like how sandbox it is. Components were good. I found the characters uninteresting and not very unique, just slightly different. Will admit hype may have been high.', 'rating': '4'}, {'username': 'armor_11', 'comment': "Managed to get a three player game of this in on Tabletop Simulator.  I don't own the physical game yet, but I have backed it on Kickstarter.  Although I have only scratched the surface of the game, we had a blast playing.  There are many paths to victory and the theme is rich and deep.  There are trophies to acquire, physical combat, NPC's to contend with, skill development, the list goes on and on. When they say that this is a sandbox game, they aren't kidding. But that doesn't mean that this is a ruleset looking for a game. It's just that you can win the game a variety of ways. I'm REALLY looking forward to getting my copy. ", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'benztowner', 'comment': 'German Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bhb_cosmos', 'comment': 'Best for 4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BlackRum', 'comment': 'Rating after Intro and first glance on full ruleset. This looks like a potential Golden Geek Game  Update: 10/10 after Playing the Master of Chaos Version. Best Big Game 2023 from my POV.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'boardgamedoktor', 'comment': 'Backerkit, Bedesbach', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bpa7403', 'comment': 'Great Experience, and I really enjoyed it. A lot of unique things going on in this game. It is one of those games that just let you have fun and have an imagination. I kind of compare it to Red Dead Redemption. It\'s a big open-world game and has different pathways to victory. If you like pulling off goals and tasks, this one is for you. The goals and tasks are random for each character in every game. I love the rock-paper-scissors combat mechanic and how you can augment it with weapons and items. The way some items can be used in combat, or they can be exhausted during gameplay.  The resource generation with the cabin is great. The various ways you earn points in the game can be a lot, but it does not feel overwhelming. My favorite is the Bank Note. Since I have played with everything, it will be hard to play it without everything. The game allows you to use your imagination. The game is its own thematic animal. There are also extra things in the game that cannot be utilized yet (future expansion material). I am glad they plan on expanding on the game. I love what the creator is doing with the whole Bantam Planet website. The artwork in the game is amazing. There are a few things I did have some concerns with. Some of the inserts did not fit sleeved cards. However, I did come up with my own solution until they fix the issue. I wish there was more characters to choose from. I will say that the rule book is a little rough. However, the game\'s creators in the forums respond to rule questions regularly. The solo is really fun, however, If you can\'t take a thematic loss at the end then this one is not for you. Yes, you can die in the solo and the game is over and you have to restart. There is no re-spawn in solo. There is some "take that" in it. Which I love. But some gamers have hard times recovering from a swingy loss and may make their experience not good. If you use your "don\'t take that" handicap card, then this one is not for you. Sometimes the player interaction can be very minimal if none at all.  I love the events, however I wish there were more than just 54 and in solo, you only utilize only a few of those. Some of the events go back into the deck until you can master what the event is requiring.  There seems to be some things missing, but from what I can tell, they may or will be included in future expansions (like the train). You cannot use the train station for anything yet. The game boards do feel disconnected from each other, but not a big deal. Not a big deal for me, but the game is a table hog and may take some time to setup and play based on player count and experience. I usually do not like dice rolling to decide things, however there is some dice mitigation and re-rolls. Lastly, unfortunately I am not going to compare it to other games. Yeah, it may have taken some mechanics from other games. But there are many games out there that do that exact same thing and gamers still play them. I feel this game will open up new ways for other games to be developed. Thanks for reading and have fun.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'bramadan', 'comment': 'To Try', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BrandonCrul', 'comment': 'The Shadow Governors Hide details The frontier looks even more beautiful through the eyes of the Shadow Governors. You will receive your very own physical copy of Bantam West plus all unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals, Metal Coins, Terrain Upgrade Pack, Upgraded First Player Token, and a signed Postcard!  This item does not include shipping. You will be asked to pay it after Kickstarter ends from the Pledge Manager. See the shipping section for more details.  INCLUDES: Bantam West Base Game All Unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals Metal Coins Terrain Upgrade Pack Upgraded First Player Token Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard  + Card Sleeves', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Bricklebrit_Games', 'comment': 'I just unboxed it. I will return to rate and review shortly.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bwohmie', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge - Like New', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'chicobrew', 'comment': "Such a great game. I really hope for expansions. Can't say enough about how great it is. Only critique is the organization of the rulebook. It's not bad. But could be better. And I Hope for some exploration tiles next round", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'cmlee1017', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DButts', 'comment': "Great open sandbox game, you can decide how you want to play and aim for that and then react as other things happen and change things if needed. So many cool stories that come out when you play. Great game!! Can't wait for my copy to arrive!!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'deeplydapper', 'comment': "Kickstarter: Shadow Governer's Pledge", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'devilq8', 'comment': 'Governor pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DiceQueen27', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Dickhillman', 'comment': 'May Sell', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'dingo76', 'comment': 'Sandbox- Western.. :-) So cool. Sometimes, a crazy Manual ;-), but if you understand it, it is very easy, so many oppinions to play with you char. a realy great game. i love it.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'D_B_Games', 'comment': 'I have played with the designer Ike and some other fine folk online. This game is absolutely amazing. It is complex, well thought out and gives tonnes of choice. Wonderful stories and fun times are to be had here for sure. Highly recommended!!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Erikk78', 'comment': "Rating after the 'warm up' scenarios. Not impressed yet, but lets see where it goes.", 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'evkefalas', 'comment': 'Home on the Range pledge Plus all sgs', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'fODDER841', 'comment': 'Have had a great time playing this on BGA a number of times.  Really looking forward to the physical copy.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'futari', 'comment': '2024 59,49€', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'garyjgeoaccess', 'comment': 'UPDATED AFTER A RECENT PAIR OF GAMES.  Simply put, Bantam West looks great sitting on the table. The layout is top notch. The character models are very good, and they come with a wash already applied so that you don\'t really even need to paint them. They look great right out of the box. And the box itself is stuffed with content, for the various game modes, from the Warm Welcome introductory mode to the Solo mode.   The game designer was very responsive throughout the entire Kickstarter campaign. For a first time game developer using Kickstarter for the first time, the campaign went very well. It was a model of how to run your first Kickstarter (and reminded me favorably of Obsession, also by a first-timer).   This one was my most eagerly anticipated and awaited titles (at least of the past couple years). But I have to admit the game play at first came as a disappointment. Nonetheless, the game is growing on me! The game play mechanics contain nothing new or innovative. But games are almost always filled with tension.   SOLO GAME PLAY To see what I\'m talking about regarding game play mechanics, it\'s useful to examine how the Solo game works, in which you get tasks that are little more than busy work. The first task simply has you move to your choice of four destinations, pick up a token, and return to the saloon with it. Then you have to venture onto terrain tiles and do enough logging that you can build a cabin. Next up, you have to work on endeavoring in all four types so that you can reap the benefits by making money, buying weapons, buying a horse, etc. In short, you have to do the standard business of the game. But this business has little sense of strategy when played in solo mode. Again, it\'s busy work. And I don\'t need games that provide simple dice rolling mechanics, and that\'s what we have here. I want game mechanics that really push me to think strategically (as in Legends of Andor, for example). And this game comes up way short in this respect.   If you are drawn to this game because it supposedly supports solo play, you will likely be in for a big disappointment. However, there is a lot to like in Bantam West ... see the next section.  MULTI-PLAYER GAMEs Okay, forget about Solo mode. This is NOT a good solo game. But how does it do as a multi-player game? Here, the results are much more encouraging. The gameplay is in fact quite enjoyable as the characters roam around old West locations. It\'s all about earning "notoriety." There are STANDARD ways players can earn notoriety. But each player also gets a TO-DO list that provides additional opportunities. Plus as players tackle the game\'s more advanced modes, more mechanics for earning notoriety become available, such as hiring "riders" and tackling a variety of "pursuits," or by depositing money in the bank and watching the balance grow (this strikes me as a strange mechanic for a western game!). The game gives players a broad canvas upon which to play out their western fantasies.   Play against real-live opponents works better than the game\'s solo mode not because the game mechanics are any better (the mechanics are exactly the same), but because now the players are in competition to acquire notoriety. So in head-to-head competition, the game play does have some tension, as players rush to check off items on their to-do lists and otherwise acquire notoriety by any means necessary.   I\'m not a big fan of the "Varied To-Do Lists," which sometimes are just plain unfair, given the character that a player might draw. There can be a complete disconnect between the character and the tasks on their to-do list. We have instead tried playing with the introductory to-do list for all our games, flipping the list to the B side after all players players have completed this A side. But admittedly, this keeps some of the character quirks (such as Hannah\'s pyromania) from playing out.   I might have some misgivings about the game play mechanics, but this is a fun game when played against one or more opponents, as you watch the characters struggle in the Old West. This game is all about theme.    THEME VS. MECHANICS Bantam West is for people who want to spend time in the old west, to walk the streets of a western town, to strike out into the harsh land on their own, to prospect, to forage, to hunt, to cut down trees. It allows you to torch all the buildings and cabins that you want (think HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER or UNFORGIVEN). It allows you to make your fortune mining (think TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE or PAINT YOUR WAGON). It allows you to become a minor lumber baron (think BIG TREES and COME AND GET IT). It allows you spend time at a saloon swilling down brews (movies too numerous to mention).   The game allows players to live in a world that scratches that itch for rolling back the clock 150 years and living on the American frontier. The game does not do this with game play that is new or surprising. On the contrary, the game play mechanics are unimaginative. For example, how does any player mine? They roll two dice. How does any player cut down trees? They roll two dice. How does any player hunt? You get it. They roll two dice. Etc. Each player starts with exactly the same level at the various endeavors, and then depending on how much they perform a given endeavor, their proficiency level increases. This is a strange game play choice given that each character has an array of skill ratings. You might think a character with more strength might be better at being a lumberjack, but no, all characters are totally equal in this respect. A character might be better at sneaking or negotiating or malice, but these SKILLS have little effect on how a character performs one of the main endeavors. This game-design decision was undoubtedly made so that the characters would start on a relatively level playing field (i.e., so that no one character would have a significant advantage over the rest), but it does have the effect of making the characters less impactful than their array of skill ratings might suggest.   No, this is NOT a game in which the developers came up with interesting game mechanics that they THEN wrapped with theme. This is a game that places a very high premium on building the western theme FIRST with game-play mechanics in the background, supporting that theme, allowing that theme to come to life. This is a decidedly old-fashioned approach to game design. Developers have moved away from this approach over the past couple of decades in favor of euro game mechanics. But Bantam West adheres to an older approach in which theme is everything and lackluster game play mechanics are forgiven.   Hey, I enjoy playing old-style games that are all about theme. Arkham Horror (the board game) was THE game that pulled me into the board gaming hobby nearly twenty years ago--and it\'s about as ugly (in terms of game mechanics) as a game can get. I enjoy good game mechanics but I also insist on themes that I find intriguing (such as the old West!). So how does Bantam West do on these terms? Read on.  THEME AND THE FUTURE Bantam West MOSTLY gets the western theme right. Yay! The game designers truly wanted to deliver a game that oozes the Old West from every element on the board. And on those terms the designers have succeeded.   I question some of their decisions, such as why so much pyromania? Alligators, really? Foraging? Huh. Where are the cattle herds? Where are the sod busters? Where are the cattle towns? But this stuff can and maybe will be added in expansions.   A railroad station is on the town tile, in the lower left corner. It doesn\'t do anything yet, but I feel confident it WILL in an expansion. Other hints -- e.g., a corn plant on an unused icon suggests farm land might be in the offing and a wagon wheel on another icon suggests a pioneer trail might be coming on a future terrain tile -- hints like these bode well for the game\'s future . The game can grow and become a more complete portrayal of life in the west. Players could conceivably even mix and match terrain tiles so the game play fits their expectations for a particular vision of the American western, or a view of the spaghetti western. (Maybe? Not sure that will ever happen, but one can hope.)  MORE GAME PLAY PARTICULARS (THE COMBAT DECK) Here is an example of a game-design decision that seems sort of strange to me. Consider the combat deck. At the start of the game, this is a simple deck of nine cards. Each character gets their own deck, with a third of these cards being customized for that character, with the other two thirds being standard combat cards. Players can add to this deck with combat cards acquired from the Gunsmith shop. During a fight, players don\'t know which cards they will draw to their hand until the combat has started--unless they launch an ambush--so the players decide to fight and THEN they find out what cards they have in their hand. Notice this is very different from games like Mage Knight, for example, in which everything a player does comes from the puzzle of the player\'s deck. Mage Knight makes every turn a puzzle, in which the player must figure out how to accomplish what they want to do given the cards in their hand. Bantam West doesn\'t give the players that puzzle. The players decide to fight first and then they are given a hand of cards to use. This seems backwards to me and it robs Bantam West of strategic decisions in favor of simple rock-paper-scissors mechanics. I don\'t really like how weapons only come into play if you\'re lucky enough to draw them. Otherwise, a player might be using their standard combat cards (brawl, tackle, block, etc.), unless again, it\'s an ambush. Only in an ambush can a player choose their first card. The game deserves a better system for fighting.  ABOUT THE RULE BOOK ... Like the game itself, the rulebook looks great.  There are lots of examples and illustrations to help players understand how this complex game works. But the rulebook only scratches the surface and doesn\'t provide many answers. It was evidently written by somewhat so familiar with the game that they had lost all sense of perspective on what NEW players needed to know. They assumed so much of the game is self-evident, such as the store interactions, which are not defined anywhere. Players must interpret the brief text and icons, but these store interaction spaces are NOT always self-evident. Some are quite difficult to decipher.  I\'ll use cabins as an example of what\'s wrong with the rule book. A section on "Building Cabins" provides many of the answers about how cabins work, but it doesn\'t provide everything. There is no one place in the rulebook that explains everything on the cabin cards. To learn what the resource/fire icons mean, you must turn to the section on Arson. To learn about the skill icon at the top of the card (in a triangle with the black background), you must turn to the section on fighting. In other words, for the resource/fire icons and the skill icon, players must know the purpose of the icon before they can find an explanation in the rulebook. I\'m going to repeat this because it\'s very important: To find an explanation in the rulebook, players frequently must already understand the purpose of the icon or the token or the whatever. This approach is not helpful for new players. A better approach would have been to explain in a quick summary everything on the cabin card and to supply page numbers and section title references for additional information. This is a problem repeated over and over in the rulebook, in which information is scattered throughout the pages. I wish the game had provided a reference manual that went over everything in detail, instead of this frequently scattershot approach.  UNBOXING AND STORAGE Yikes. This was probably the longest un-boxing session that I ever endured. Why? Because there are so many components in the box (a good thing, right?), I struggled with how to arrange everything. Do I dare punch out the pieces when I don\'t know how to use them yet? What should I bag together? Do I need to read the entire rulebook to figure out how to best store the pieces? (The answer to that last question is YES. Only after you know the game quite well will you come to grasp how to best store the components.) Labels have been placed on each group of components on the cardboard punch-out  sheets. So as I punched out each set of cardboard components, I bagged and wrote a note with that label. This process took a couple hours! But I sort of enjoy this process and the challenge of storage. Later on, I started combining elements in bags in ways that made sense to me (with my initial limited understanding of game play). But as I learned the game more, I found some of those groupings didn\'t make good sense and I rearranged them. I finally decided to group components by the five game-play modes and sorting character cards by each character (and leaving all the minis in their own holder). This helps get the game out of the box and back onto the table, but it\'s still a challenge setting up the game. (But luckily I\'m sort of masochistic in this respect and enjoy the process.)  WRAP-UP I wish the game designers the best of luck with this game. Ike and his crew ran one of the best Kickstarter campaigns that I have ever witnessed. He has been so responsive to supporter requests and tried to make this game fit the desires of everyone. I want to see him create more games to fill out his Bantam world. But I\'m concerned about the attention to game play mechanics.   Would I support another game in this line? I don\'t think so. In the 21st century, game play mechanics need to receive greater attention. Would I support an expansion for Bantam West? Maybe. Probably. I look forward to seeing additional terrain tiles. I want to see how the unused icons on the game boards will be put into use!   Even with my misgivings (which maybe I\'ve stressed too strongly), this is a fascinating game.', 'rating': '7.5'}, {'username': 'GateauDeLune', 'comment': 'Kickstarter.  Funded: August 12, 2021 Estimated: December 2022 Received: November 14, 2023', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GattoNero25', 'comment': 'Shadow Governour Pledge', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'GeekyBron', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge Completed Survey Oct 27, 2021 Includes: - Base game - All unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals - Metal Coins - Terrain Upgrade Pack - Upgraded First Player Token - Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard - Game Trayz', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GmanJ', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - due Nov-Dec 2024 [revised from September 2023] [revised from March to May 2023 [revised from December 2022] The Shadow Governors Pledge (US$150.00) - inc Bantam West Base Game (US$97.00) - inc Metal Coins (US$21.00) - inc Terrain Upgrade Pack (US$24.00) - inc Upgraded First Player Token (US$10.00) - inc Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard (US$15.00) + Card Sleeves (US$14.00) Shipping (US$14.00) https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/bantamplanet/bantam-west/description Look out for Enemy Upgrade Pack (stretch goal not met)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Gypsypunx', 'comment': 'EN edition. «Home on the range» pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hbksean', 'comment': 'Have played through just the intro, but there is huge potential for this game and I look forward to playing more complex scenarios', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'hiimjohn', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Game', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'HoserBelow', 'comment': 'TT', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hunterrogue', 'comment': 'Why play this when you can play Western Legends?  Mechanics are fiddly, combat very much so.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'imadeadend', 'comment': 'The rulebook is just straight up bad. Missing rules entirely (where does my character start?), lacks a ton of clarity, and has sections that conflict directly with the section that follows. Could barely get through a learning game and won’t be playing again.', 'rating': '3'}, {'username': 'jcustar07', 'comment': 'backed on KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jkozycz', 'comment': "Scratched an itch I've had in relation to sandbox style board games. Enjoyed the feeling of exploration and lore. Felt like there were so many options to create your own path. Daunting the first time, but more intuitive than it seems. Looking forward to what new adventures await in the future of Bantam Planet!", 'rating': '9.5'}, {'username': 'John163', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jo_Kari', 'comment': "This game is a great example of innovation. It takes the open world genre you'd expect to find in video games and refines it for a board game experience. The engaging but familiar skill based mechanics allow any player to immediately jump in and start exploring this vast world without first having to circumnavigate an unyielding learning curve. And the combat, oh! A deceptively simple system inspired by 'rock, paper, scissors' that somehow has the scope to tell new and exciting stories every time. The first time I played, I was hiding out in an abandoned shack till a rival gunslinger came barging in looking for my head and proposed to remove it from my shoulders. In the ensuing fight, we swung at each other around this dingy cabin till I shattered a window and leapt out. As I fled across the river, my rival stood outside firing pop shots into the water, desperate to catch me. But I was too quick and vanished into the trees. Now, I didn't have to work very hard to picture this story, the game told me this narrative with little more than a few cards with just a couple of words apiece. It truly is ingenious. I cannot recommend this game enough. Make sure you pick it up when the campaign launches!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'JTQuest', 'comment': 'KS ETA DEC 2022', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'KatDaddy', 'comment': 'A bad rule book is unforgivable!!!', 'rating': '5'}, {'username': 'kusti0152', 'comment': 'Based on introduction scenario. This was disappointement.I can see potential of this game but a way how you try to teach this game is not a good solution.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'landon1013', 'comment': 'I have only played the intro level, I need to re-rate after playing the "full" version of the game.  Category 0-5 Rating Experience (35%) - 4.5 Mechanics (20%) - 4 Involvement (20%) - 4 Game Length (10%) - 4 Weight of Game (10%) - 4 Aesthetics (5%) - 4 Score - 83.5 Star Rating - 8.35', 'rating': '8.35'}, {'username': 'Larryoturnbull', 'comment': 'Fantastic game with what looks like room to grow. Made use of FAQ, glossary and index. Played each mode and enjoyed the modes theme. Would have given it a 10 if it was easier to read the small text size in some important rules. Bring your magnifying glass and burn the west to the ground!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'LeonM19', 'comment': 'What a great game... a plethora of options what to do... a lot of stratrgy that can get quite complex the game is pretty modular and the thematic catched me.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'marcodegoede', 'comment': "Difficult to learn (lot of rules) but good to play after one try. We're going to play it again", 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'MaxBantamPlanet', 'comment': 'Best game ever? Ok fine, I am a little biased ; )', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'merlinsmess', 'comment': 'Kickstarter first 500', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'MigNix', 'comment': 'Seen this game evolve into one of the most special tabletop experiences I have ever had the pleasure of playing. The designer Ike Bruncardi should be proud of what he has accomplished. The level of detail is outstanding even in the prototype and I am so excited to see the final version... This is one of those rare gems to that will hopefully take the gaming world by storm to allow the world building to be expanded. Seriously impressive... Just Wow!', 'rating': '8.9'}, {'username': 'minh_han', 'comment': "I had been following this game since its beginnings on Kickstarter. Just the attention to detail during the planning and production of the game, along with extensive check-ins from the developers, made me look forward to getting it into my hands. When it arrived and I unboxed it, it did not disappoint. And, there's just SO MUCH there! The box is PACKED with material. The artwork and thematics are amazing. The quality of the materials is top notch. From the minis to the player boards to the linen-finished cards, everything feels so good in my hands. Unpacking it and putting everything in some semblance of order did take quite a while. I kinda regret not splurging on the Gametrayz insert. It would have made ordering the components much easier. And I wish the game came with more bags and of different sizes. I raided my bag collection to get all the components separated.  I just had my first ever play of the game with 3 people. Even watching the How To video on the game website, setting up the game for the first time was a bit intimidating. There's A LOT there. But once we started to play, things fell into place pretty quickly. After a short while, the actions and options became fairly intuitive. One thing that could have been explained a bit better is getting out of town to the outskirts. Because the Warm Welcome intro game only uses two boards, there are only two real ways out of the town in order to Endeavor. Also, it was unclear to us if one automatically transported to the outskirts tile once getting to the edge of town, or if that was another step. We might have spent more Grit than necessary moving from one place to another.   For me, the Warm Welcome intro game was just long enough to fill an evening, especially after spending 20 min to watch the How To Play video and another 15 min to set up the game. We fumbled through our first play, clarifying actions and rules as we went along. I think any more than what we did would have been overwhelming. After a few rounds, we got into the swing of things quickly. My buddy won with all four missions accomplished, while I only completed one, lol. I look forward to playing it again and diving in deeper into the game.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Moppersmurf', 'comment': 'M.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'motchismo', 'comment': 'KS DLX', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'murki', 'comment': 'to follow', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Not_People', 'comment': "A neat sandbox western that walks you through increasingly complex rules via different scenario setups.  However, not our favorite sandbox game.  And due to the increasing scenario complexity you will always be starting less interesting plays when you bring in new people.  Unless you push them to advanced play right away, which may overload them with choice.  Having something like the ambitions from Outer Rim would help direct new players who want to start off in an advanced mode.  Regardless, we didn't find a whole lot calling us to come back to this one.  Also, oddly, the advanced side of the boards switch graphics from day to night and are less nice to look at overall.  So once everyone gets accustomed to the game repeated plays happen on the uglier side of the boards.", 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'panamajr', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Parabellum76', 'comment': 'Talk about inclusive character design... 4 initial characters to choose from and by some "miracle" they happen cover the full spectrum, by todays holier than thou standards, which also now blends into board game designs for better or worse.   Something for everybody to pick from, I know which character would be first pick for most gamers though.   I am just not convinced the distribution and mix of characters is realistic for the time period and therefore I am out. Not for me.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'paulrrahn', 'comment': 'Estimated delivery Dec 2022 (Nov 2023)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'pbrunica', 'comment': 'Kickstarter backed. Ends August 12, 2021. Motto: Wish you were here!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Poins', 'comment': '+ Dead Settlers Map', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'PPMP', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'puggi', 'comment': 'A few months ago, I made the decision to expand my board game collection with games that can fill an entire evening in terms of gameplay length and immersion. For each classic theme, I aimed to have at least one of these "big games," as I like to call them. Something like "Nemesis for space and aliens, Everrain for seafaring, Spring and Autumn for China," and so on. Bantam was my hope for representing the big game in the Western theme, and what can I say... 10/10, jackpot, bullseye, pick your favorite expression. This game has such a great variety of possibilities, each game is different. And the best part: no matter which way you choose, you can make points with it. I saw someone winning with killing every NPC he could find, I saw someone winning with selling wood…. This game is wonderful. Strategy tip: for experienced player (e.g. Brass Level) I encourage you to directly start with Master of Chaos, I tried it two times with different 4P-groups and each time it worked after two turns. A much greater game experience than the tutorial', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'rarroyo', 'comment': '100 Bantam Planet', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'RebJaenus', 'comment': "Cool, open world, western themed Immersive Tabletop Sim (their term).  Has a lot going on and is less fun with less of the stuff added.  Also needs to be played with the right mindset.  If played as a simple race to X number of points, nobody has much fun, because the point goals are a touch too easy, but if played with the open world, exploration mindset, it's very fun.", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'rendezvous_salatiga', 'comment': 'Great Sandbox Game', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'rigogarcia', 'comment': "Great game! My partner went in completely cold (hadn't read the rulebook), and I got her running within 20min. The ruleset and game mechanics are so intuitive. I can't wait to continue integrating additional gameplay features into future play throughs.  Solid design. Highly recommend! Great job, Ike and team! :)", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'Rivka', 'comment': 'Played at a library game session. Pros: interesting theme, high quality components, reasonable learning curve. Cons: definitely on the longer side of the time estimate (could easily take all afternoon), lots of fiddly components', 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'Saw_Dust_Muncher', 'comment': "I love the them, mechanics, and team that put this together, can't wait to see what they do next", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Secrethippy', 'comment': 'Just a really fun game, with loads of variety and paths to choose on your way to victory. Player interaction can be as much or as little as you want it to be. The way the game build up the modules is great. There’s just so much to do. 100% recommend', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'SentoTM', 'comment': 'No suelen morarme tanto tanto estos juegos, pero me llama. El Oeste siempre me llama... Bandolerooooooo', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sierosehero', 'comment': 'Deutsche Version', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sordeq', 'comment': 'Always a fun time. Every time we play it, even the teaching games are a blast.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'SupermanDX', 'comment': "Mark won via contest. He'll pass on whenever it's delivered.", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'SUPRAMAN79', 'comment': 'Amazing game. Backed this as I was a massive fan of Western Legends but this game is Western Legends x 100. So many ways to score points. Yet to win a game but still keen to play and play again', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'TableForTwoPlayers', 'comment': "Bantam West is an incredibly thematic, immersive simulation/sandbox game.  So much so that even when the game end is triggered, I want to keep going just to see what buttons I can push and levers I can pull.  It strikes a good balance between being a strategic action efficiency game and having just enough luck to do the wild west theme justice.  There are lots of interesting decisions to be made: how much precious time/resources do I spend leveling up my character before I pursue victory points?  Do I spend my hard earned resources to level up my endeavor, making it easier to get them in the future, or do I sell them for cash?  At the same time, the random elements lead to moments of tension, excitement, and emergent storytelling.  The biggest downside to me is, because this game is such a detailed simulation, it is a tough teach.  When we played the intro scenario, it took quite a long time to teach, yet for all that, the actual gameplay was dead simple.  It felt like that initial scenario was a lot of work for little payoff, because it was very short, and half the mechanics in the game were not available to us.  I don't really see a way around this because any additional mechanics might have been too much for a first play, but it left us a bit unsatisfied.  Once we got to the Shadow Governor's scenario though, everything opened up and we were very glad we stuck with it.  Overall, I thoroughly enjoy this one, and can't wait to get it to the table again.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Teslavstwain', 'comment': 'Such a fun, unique game! A lot to think about and heavy on setup, but so much fun packed into one box! I love the different take on deck-fighting and the many options for things to do on a turn. Highly recommend this one and am hopeful I am getting my hands on a copy through a friend!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'tgravil', 'comment': 'My new favorite board game.  Lots to do in an open world environment. They definitely knock this game out of the park on their first try! Looking forward to expansions.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Thing12Games', 'comment': 'GREAT game with a REALLY bad rule book. Worth struggling through the rules and ambiguity though.  Kinda feels like a western Xia.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'VetruvianGamer', 'comment': '3-4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'VittorioV', 'comment': 'Unique and fun boardgame', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'VJBeam', 'comment': 'I’ve been very lucky to get to play Bantam West over the last 6 months and have seen it continue to develop to a point now that this game really is something special! It’s one of those EPIC games!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Wreckage', 'comment': 'I like the theme, naturally, and from talking with the amazing access they provide I like it even more.  This one will be highly anticipated.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'YogiBaldGuru', 'comment': 'En', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'zenmazster', 'comment': "Solo'ing now to be able to teach it to game group next week.  Seems cool and vast with a lot of possibilities.  You'll for sure need a magnifying glass to read important info on some cards.  It's an odd production choice.  Take the smallest text you've seen on cards and shrink it another 50%.  That's my only complaint so far, game looks great besides that.  Random: i will say squarely between pages 8-9 was one of the coolest and most interesting things ive seen in a rulebook.  Its the fun touches like that that add tons of personality to the game.  Fun fact, before i realized what it was was, i thought it was a ton of ants that had somehoW invaded my rulebook and i threw it in the air and screamed LOL.  It looks soo real.", 'rating': 'n/a'}], 'name': 'Bantam West'})
('game', {'comments': [{'username': 'ADHDefn', 'comment': 'Won via the #onboardolympics', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Aglarendil', 'comment': 'Really nice, original mechanics, as idea, and open to dovelopment. Mats really good, a kick well made. Hoping they can improve solo mode because big part of experience it’s related to more players, now, maybe. I will improve the solo mode.  Anyway, if I can imagine some add on I guess: 1-  EVENT CARD Are funny but few. But they can really improve experience and consent to better stay in old west. Cause of cost of cards I suggest an axpansion with app or a rich book (like in THIS WAR OF MINE”. 2- SCENARIOS with story. The game has been really well made and give a lot of possibility. It is a really open system, so we can build also some movies expansions western movies dedicated… 3- RULEBOOK is well made but really some infos are too few explained, need to improve explocations, specially about movement; 4- CHARACTERS. We can build a Character Creating System. My idea is to do a mix question/answer system and dice, where you choose something about you, your story, your family, your experience and the sistem lead you to build different characters, maybe with personal life objective; 5- STORYTELLING . Because of the nature of game, we feel to find a personal experience, the system consent it. So, even if someone don’t like (but have commercial good results- see Pandemic serie…) is possible propose some legacy expansions, where you have unique scenarios but with each of them you don’t lose your money because you can find new cards and maps that you can use expanding your collection.  Many things to do! Ike… put peoples at work!1 hahahha', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'amanal_lake', 'comment': 'I threw away 2 of the Gametrayz as to get the game in the box. There is a lack of detail here that has me concerned about the game play.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'Annihalus', 'comment': 'This was a disappointment for me. I love the artwork. I like how sandbox it is. Components were good. I found the characters uninteresting and not very unique, just slightly different. Will admit hype may have been high.', 'rating': '4'}, {'username': 'armor_11', 'comment': "Managed to get a three player game of this in on Tabletop Simulator.  I don't own the physical game yet, but I have backed it on Kickstarter.  Although I have only scratched the surface of the game, we had a blast playing.  There are many paths to victory and the theme is rich and deep.  There are trophies to acquire, physical combat, NPC's to contend with, skill development, the list goes on and on. When they say that this is a sandbox game, they aren't kidding. But that doesn't mean that this is a ruleset looking for a game. It's just that you can win the game a variety of ways. I'm REALLY looking forward to getting my copy. ", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'benztowner', 'comment': 'German Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bhb_cosmos', 'comment': 'Best for 4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BlackRum', 'comment': 'Rating after Intro and first glance on full ruleset. This looks like a potential Golden Geek Game  Update: 10/10 after Playing the Master of Chaos Version. Best Big Game 2023 from my POV.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'boardgamedoktor', 'comment': 'Backerkit, Bedesbach', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bpa7403', 'comment': 'Great Experience, and I really enjoyed it. A lot of unique things going on in this game. It is one of those games that just let you have fun and have an imagination. I kind of compare it to Red Dead Redemption. It\'s a big open-world game and has different pathways to victory. If you like pulling off goals and tasks, this one is for you. The goals and tasks are random for each character in every game. I love the rock-paper-scissors combat mechanic and how you can augment it with weapons and items. The way some items can be used in combat, or they can be exhausted during gameplay.  The resource generation with the cabin is great. The various ways you earn points in the game can be a lot, but it does not feel overwhelming. My favorite is the Bank Note. Since I have played with everything, it will be hard to play it without everything. The game allows you to use your imagination. The game is its own thematic animal. There are also extra things in the game that cannot be utilized yet (future expansion material). I am glad they plan on expanding on the game. I love what the creator is doing with the whole Bantam Planet website. The artwork in the game is amazing. There are a few things I did have some concerns with. Some of the inserts did not fit sleeved cards. However, I did come up with my own solution until they fix the issue. I wish there was more characters to choose from. I will say that the rule book is a little rough. However, the game\'s creators in the forums respond to rule questions regularly. The solo is really fun, however, If you can\'t take a thematic loss at the end then this one is not for you. Yes, you can die in the solo and the game is over and you have to restart. There is no re-spawn in solo. There is some "take that" in it. Which I love. But some gamers have hard times recovering from a swingy loss and may make their experience not good. If you use your "don\'t take that" handicap card, then this one is not for you. Sometimes the player interaction can be very minimal if none at all.  I love the events, however I wish there were more than just 54 and in solo, you only utilize only a few of those. Some of the events go back into the deck until you can master what the event is requiring.  There seems to be some things missing, but from what I can tell, they may or will be included in future expansions (like the train). You cannot use the train station for anything yet. The game boards do feel disconnected from each other, but not a big deal. Not a big deal for me, but the game is a table hog and may take some time to setup and play based on player count and experience. I usually do not like dice rolling to decide things, however there is some dice mitigation and re-rolls. Lastly, unfortunately I am not going to compare it to other games. Yeah, it may have taken some mechanics from other games. But there are many games out there that do that exact same thing and gamers still play them. I feel this game will open up new ways for other games to be developed. Thanks for reading and have fun.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'bramadan', 'comment': 'To Try', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BrandonCrul', 'comment': 'The Shadow Governors Hide details The frontier looks even more beautiful through the eyes of the Shadow Governors. You will receive your very own physical copy of Bantam West plus all unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals, Metal Coins, Terrain Upgrade Pack, Upgraded First Player Token, and a signed Postcard!  This item does not include shipping. You will be asked to pay it after Kickstarter ends from the Pledge Manager. See the shipping section for more details.  INCLUDES: Bantam West Base Game All Unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals Metal Coins Terrain Upgrade Pack Upgraded First Player Token Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard  + Card Sleeves', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Bricklebrit_Games', 'comment': 'I just unboxed it. I will return to rate and review shortly.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bwohmie', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge - Like New', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'chicobrew', 'comment': "Such a great game. I really hope for expansions. Can't say enough about how great it is. Only critique is the organization of the rulebook. It's not bad. But could be better. And I Hope for some exploration tiles next round", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'cmlee1017', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DButts', 'comment': "Great open sandbox game, you can decide how you want to play and aim for that and then react as other things happen and change things if needed. So many cool stories that come out when you play. Great game!! Can't wait for my copy to arrive!!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'deeplydapper', 'comment': "Kickstarter: Shadow Governer's Pledge", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'devilq8', 'comment': 'Governor pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DiceQueen27', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Dickhillman', 'comment': 'May Sell', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'dingo76', 'comment': 'Sandbox- Western.. :-) So cool. Sometimes, a crazy Manual ;-), but if you understand it, it is very easy, so many oppinions to play with you char. a realy great game. i love it.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'D_B_Games', 'comment': 'I have played with the designer Ike and some other fine folk online. This game is absolutely amazing. It is complex, well thought out and gives tonnes of choice. Wonderful stories and fun times are to be had here for sure. Highly recommended!!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Erikk78', 'comment': "Rating after the 'warm up' scenarios. Not impressed yet, but lets see where it goes.", 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'evkefalas', 'comment': 'Home on the Range pledge Plus all sgs', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'fODDER841', 'comment': 'Have had a great time playing this on BGA a number of times.  Really looking forward to the physical copy.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'futari', 'comment': '2024 59,49€', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'garyjgeoaccess', 'comment': 'UPDATED AFTER A RECENT PAIR OF GAMES.  Simply put, Bantam West looks great sitting on the table. The layout is top notch. The character models are very good, and they come with a wash already applied so that you don\'t really even need to paint them. They look great right out of the box. And the box itself is stuffed with content, for the various game modes, from the Warm Welcome introductory mode to the Solo mode.   The game designer was very responsive throughout the entire Kickstarter campaign. For a first time game developer using Kickstarter for the first time, the campaign went very well. It was a model of how to run your first Kickstarter (and reminded me favorably of Obsession, also by a first-timer).   This one was my most eagerly anticipated and awaited titles (at least of the past couple years). But I have to admit the game play at first came as a disappointment. Nonetheless, the game is growing on me! The game play mechanics contain nothing new or innovative. But games are almost always filled with tension.   SOLO GAME PLAY To see what I\'m talking about regarding game play mechanics, it\'s useful to examine how the Solo game works, in which you get tasks that are little more than busy work. The first task simply has you move to your choice of four destinations, pick up a token, and return to the saloon with it. Then you have to venture onto terrain tiles and do enough logging that you can build a cabin. Next up, you have to work on endeavoring in all four types so that you can reap the benefits by making money, buying weapons, buying a horse, etc. In short, you have to do the standard business of the game. But this business has little sense of strategy when played in solo mode. Again, it\'s busy work. And I don\'t need games that provide simple dice rolling mechanics, and that\'s what we have here. I want game mechanics that really push me to think strategically (as in Legends of Andor, for example). And this game comes up way short in this respect.   If you are drawn to this game because it supposedly supports solo play, you will likely be in for a big disappointment. However, there is a lot to like in Bantam West ... see the next section.  MULTI-PLAYER GAMEs Okay, forget about Solo mode. This is NOT a good solo game. But how does it do as a multi-player game? Here, the results are much more encouraging. The gameplay is in fact quite enjoyable as the characters roam around old West locations. It\'s all about earning "notoriety." There are STANDARD ways players can earn notoriety. But each player also gets a TO-DO list that provides additional opportunities. Plus as players tackle the game\'s more advanced modes, more mechanics for earning notoriety become available, such as hiring "riders" and tackling a variety of "pursuits," or by depositing money in the bank and watching the balance grow (this strikes me as a strange mechanic for a western game!). The game gives players a broad canvas upon which to play out their western fantasies.   Play against real-live opponents works better than the game\'s solo mode not because the game mechanics are any better (the mechanics are exactly the same), but because now the players are in competition to acquire notoriety. So in head-to-head competition, the game play does have some tension, as players rush to check off items on their to-do lists and otherwise acquire notoriety by any means necessary.   I\'m not a big fan of the "Varied To-Do Lists," which sometimes are just plain unfair, given the character that a player might draw. There can be a complete disconnect between the character and the tasks on their to-do list. We have instead tried playing with the introductory to-do list for all our games, flipping the list to the B side after all players players have completed this A side. But admittedly, this keeps some of the character quirks (such as Hannah\'s pyromania) from playing out.   I might have some misgivings about the game play mechanics, but this is a fun game when played against one or more opponents, as you watch the characters struggle in the Old West. This game is all about theme.    THEME VS. MECHANICS Bantam West is for people who want to spend time in the old west, to walk the streets of a western town, to strike out into the harsh land on their own, to prospect, to forage, to hunt, to cut down trees. It allows you to torch all the buildings and cabins that you want (think HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER or UNFORGIVEN). It allows you to make your fortune mining (think TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE or PAINT YOUR WAGON). It allows you to become a minor lumber baron (think BIG TREES and COME AND GET IT). It allows you spend time at a saloon swilling down brews (movies too numerous to mention).   The game allows players to live in a world that scratches that itch for rolling back the clock 150 years and living on the American frontier. The game does not do this with game play that is new or surprising. On the contrary, the game play mechanics are unimaginative. For example, how does any player mine? They roll two dice. How does any player cut down trees? They roll two dice. How does any player hunt? You get it. They roll two dice. Etc. Each player starts with exactly the same level at the various endeavors, and then depending on how much they perform a given endeavor, their proficiency level increases. This is a strange game play choice given that each character has an array of skill ratings. You might think a character with more strength might be better at being a lumberjack, but no, all characters are totally equal in this respect. A character might be better at sneaking or negotiating or malice, but these SKILLS have little effect on how a character performs one of the main endeavors. This game-design decision was undoubtedly made so that the characters would start on a relatively level playing field (i.e., so that no one character would have a significant advantage over the rest), but it does have the effect of making the characters less impactful than their array of skill ratings might suggest.   No, this is NOT a game in which the developers came up with interesting game mechanics that they THEN wrapped with theme. This is a game that places a very high premium on building the western theme FIRST with game-play mechanics in the background, supporting that theme, allowing that theme to come to life. This is a decidedly old-fashioned approach to game design. Developers have moved away from this approach over the past couple of decades in favor of euro game mechanics. But Bantam West adheres to an older approach in which theme is everything and lackluster game play mechanics are forgiven.   Hey, I enjoy playing old-style games that are all about theme. Arkham Horror (the board game) was THE game that pulled me into the board gaming hobby nearly twenty years ago--and it\'s about as ugly (in terms of game mechanics) as a game can get. I enjoy good game mechanics but I also insist on themes that I find intriguing (such as the old West!). So how does Bantam West do on these terms? Read on.  THEME AND THE FUTURE Bantam West MOSTLY gets the western theme right. Yay! The game designers truly wanted to deliver a game that oozes the Old West from every element on the board. And on those terms the designers have succeeded.   I question some of their decisions, such as why so much pyromania? Alligators, really? Foraging? Huh. Where are the cattle herds? Where are the sod busters? Where are the cattle towns? But this stuff can and maybe will be added in expansions.   A railroad station is on the town tile, in the lower left corner. It doesn\'t do anything yet, but I feel confident it WILL in an expansion. Other hints -- e.g., a corn plant on an unused icon suggests farm land might be in the offing and a wagon wheel on another icon suggests a pioneer trail might be coming on a future terrain tile -- hints like these bode well for the game\'s future . The game can grow and become a more complete portrayal of life in the west. Players could conceivably even mix and match terrain tiles so the game play fits their expectations for a particular vision of the American western, or a view of the spaghetti western. (Maybe? Not sure that will ever happen, but one can hope.)  MORE GAME PLAY PARTICULARS (THE COMBAT DECK) Here is an example of a game-design decision that seems sort of strange to me. Consider the combat deck. At the start of the game, this is a simple deck of nine cards. Each character gets their own deck, with a third of these cards being customized for that character, with the other two thirds being standard combat cards. Players can add to this deck with combat cards acquired from the Gunsmith shop. During a fight, players don\'t know which cards they will draw to their hand until the combat has started--unless they launch an ambush--so the players decide to fight and THEN they find out what cards they have in their hand. Notice this is very different from games like Mage Knight, for example, in which everything a player does comes from the puzzle of the player\'s deck. Mage Knight makes every turn a puzzle, in which the player must figure out how to accomplish what they want to do given the cards in their hand. Bantam West doesn\'t give the players that puzzle. The players decide to fight first and then they are given a hand of cards to use. This seems backwards to me and it robs Bantam West of strategic decisions in favor of simple rock-paper-scissors mechanics. I don\'t really like how weapons only come into play if you\'re lucky enough to draw them. Otherwise, a player might be using their standard combat cards (brawl, tackle, block, etc.), unless again, it\'s an ambush. Only in an ambush can a player choose their first card. The game deserves a better system for fighting.  ABOUT THE RULE BOOK ... Like the game itself, the rulebook looks great.  There are lots of examples and illustrations to help players understand how this complex game works. But the rulebook only scratches the surface and doesn\'t provide many answers. It was evidently written by somewhat so familiar with the game that they had lost all sense of perspective on what NEW players needed to know. They assumed so much of the game is self-evident, such as the store interactions, which are not defined anywhere. Players must interpret the brief text and icons, but these store interaction spaces are NOT always self-evident. Some are quite difficult to decipher.  I\'ll use cabins as an example of what\'s wrong with the rule book. A section on "Building Cabins" provides many of the answers about how cabins work, but it doesn\'t provide everything. There is no one place in the rulebook that explains everything on the cabin cards. To learn what the resource/fire icons mean, you must turn to the section on Arson. To learn about the skill icon at the top of the card (in a triangle with the black background), you must turn to the section on fighting. In other words, for the resource/fire icons and the skill icon, players must know the purpose of the icon before they can find an explanation in the rulebook. I\'m going to repeat this because it\'s very important: To find an explanation in the rulebook, players frequently must already understand the purpose of the icon or the token or the whatever. This approach is not helpful for new players. A better approach would have been to explain in a quick summary everything on the cabin card and to supply page numbers and section title references for additional information. This is a problem repeated over and over in the rulebook, in which information is scattered throughout the pages. I wish the game had provided a reference manual that went over everything in detail, instead of this frequently scattershot approach.  UNBOXING AND STORAGE Yikes. This was probably the longest un-boxing session that I ever endured. Why? Because there are so many components in the box (a good thing, right?), I struggled with how to arrange everything. Do I dare punch out the pieces when I don\'t know how to use them yet? What should I bag together? Do I need to read the entire rulebook to figure out how to best store the pieces? (The answer to that last question is YES. Only after you know the game quite well will you come to grasp how to best store the components.) Labels have been placed on each group of components on the cardboard punch-out  sheets. So as I punched out each set of cardboard components, I bagged and wrote a note with that label. This process took a couple hours! But I sort of enjoy this process and the challenge of storage. Later on, I started combining elements in bags in ways that made sense to me (with my initial limited understanding of game play). But as I learned the game more, I found some of those groupings didn\'t make good sense and I rearranged them. I finally decided to group components by the five game-play modes and sorting character cards by each character (and leaving all the minis in their own holder). This helps get the game out of the box and back onto the table, but it\'s still a challenge setting up the game. (But luckily I\'m sort of masochistic in this respect and enjoy the process.)  WRAP-UP I wish the game designers the best of luck with this game. Ike and his crew ran one of the best Kickstarter campaigns that I have ever witnessed. He has been so responsive to supporter requests and tried to make this game fit the desires of everyone. I want to see him create more games to fill out his Bantam world. But I\'m concerned about the attention to game play mechanics.   Would I support another game in this line? I don\'t think so. In the 21st century, game play mechanics need to receive greater attention. Would I support an expansion for Bantam West? Maybe. Probably. I look forward to seeing additional terrain tiles. I want to see how the unused icons on the game boards will be put into use!   Even with my misgivings (which maybe I\'ve stressed too strongly), this is a fascinating game.', 'rating': '7.5'}, {'username': 'GateauDeLune', 'comment': 'Kickstarter.  Funded: August 12, 2021 Estimated: December 2022 Received: November 14, 2023', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GattoNero25', 'comment': 'Shadow Governour Pledge', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'GeekyBron', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge Completed Survey Oct 27, 2021 Includes: - Base game - All unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals - Metal Coins - Terrain Upgrade Pack - Upgraded First Player Token - Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard - Game Trayz', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GmanJ', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - due Nov-Dec 2024 [revised from September 2023] [revised from March to May 2023 [revised from December 2022] The Shadow Governors Pledge (US$150.00) - inc Bantam West Base Game (US$97.00) - inc Metal Coins (US$21.00) - inc Terrain Upgrade Pack (US$24.00) - inc Upgraded First Player Token (US$10.00) - inc Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard (US$15.00) + Card Sleeves (US$14.00) Shipping (US$14.00) https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/bantamplanet/bantam-west/description Look out for Enemy Upgrade Pack (stretch goal not met)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Gypsypunx', 'comment': 'EN edition. «Home on the range» pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hbksean', 'comment': 'Have played through just the intro, but there is huge potential for this game and I look forward to playing more complex scenarios', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'hiimjohn', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Game', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'HoserBelow', 'comment': 'TT', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hunterrogue', 'comment': 'Why play this when you can play Western Legends?  Mechanics are fiddly, combat very much so.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'imadeadend', 'comment': 'The rulebook is just straight up bad. Missing rules entirely (where does my character start?), lacks a ton of clarity, and has sections that conflict directly with the section that follows. Could barely get through a learning game and won’t be playing again.', 'rating': '3'}, {'username': 'jcustar07', 'comment': 'backed on KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jkozycz', 'comment': "Scratched an itch I've had in relation to sandbox style board games. Enjoyed the feeling of exploration and lore. Felt like there were so many options to create your own path. Daunting the first time, but more intuitive than it seems. Looking forward to what new adventures await in the future of Bantam Planet!", 'rating': '9.5'}, {'username': 'John163', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jo_Kari', 'comment': "This game is a great example of innovation. It takes the open world genre you'd expect to find in video games and refines it for a board game experience. The engaging but familiar skill based mechanics allow any player to immediately jump in and start exploring this vast world without first having to circumnavigate an unyielding learning curve. And the combat, oh! A deceptively simple system inspired by 'rock, paper, scissors' that somehow has the scope to tell new and exciting stories every time. The first time I played, I was hiding out in an abandoned shack till a rival gunslinger came barging in looking for my head and proposed to remove it from my shoulders. In the ensuing fight, we swung at each other around this dingy cabin till I shattered a window and leapt out. As I fled across the river, my rival stood outside firing pop shots into the water, desperate to catch me. But I was too quick and vanished into the trees. Now, I didn't have to work very hard to picture this story, the game told me this narrative with little more than a few cards with just a couple of words apiece. It truly is ingenious. I cannot recommend this game enough. Make sure you pick it up when the campaign launches!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'JTQuest', 'comment': 'KS ETA DEC 2022', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'KatDaddy', 'comment': 'A bad rule book is unforgivable!!!', 'rating': '5'}, {'username': 'kusti0152', 'comment': 'Based on introduction scenario. This was disappointement.I can see potential of this game but a way how you try to teach this game is not a good solution.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'landon1013', 'comment': 'I have only played the intro level, I need to re-rate after playing the "full" version of the game.  Category 0-5 Rating Experience (35%) - 4.5 Mechanics (20%) - 4 Involvement (20%) - 4 Game Length (10%) - 4 Weight of Game (10%) - 4 Aesthetics (5%) - 4 Score - 83.5 Star Rating - 8.35', 'rating': '8.35'}, {'username': 'Larryoturnbull', 'comment': 'Fantastic game with what looks like room to grow. Made use of FAQ, glossary and index. Played each mode and enjoyed the modes theme. Would have given it a 10 if it was easier to read the small text size in some important rules. Bring your magnifying glass and burn the west to the ground!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'LeonM19', 'comment': 'What a great game... a plethora of options what to do... a lot of stratrgy that can get quite complex the game is pretty modular and the thematic catched me.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'marcodegoede', 'comment': "Difficult to learn (lot of rules) but good to play after one try. We're going to play it again", 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'MaxBantamPlanet', 'comment': 'Best game ever? Ok fine, I am a little biased ; )', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'merlinsmess', 'comment': 'Kickstarter first 500', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'MigNix', 'comment': 'Seen this game evolve into one of the most special tabletop experiences I have ever had the pleasure of playing. The designer Ike Bruncardi should be proud of what he has accomplished. The level of detail is outstanding even in the prototype and I am so excited to see the final version... This is one of those rare gems to that will hopefully take the gaming world by storm to allow the world building to be expanded. Seriously impressive... Just Wow!', 'rating': '8.9'}, {'username': 'minh_han', 'comment': "I had been following this game since its beginnings on Kickstarter. Just the attention to detail during the planning and production of the game, along with extensive check-ins from the developers, made me look forward to getting it into my hands. When it arrived and I unboxed it, it did not disappoint. And, there's just SO MUCH there! The box is PACKED with material. The artwork and thematics are amazing. The quality of the materials is top notch. From the minis to the player boards to the linen-finished cards, everything feels so good in my hands. Unpacking it and putting everything in some semblance of order did take quite a while. I kinda regret not splurging on the Gametrayz insert. It would have made ordering the components much easier. And I wish the game came with more bags and of different sizes. I raided my bag collection to get all the components separated.  I just had my first ever play of the game with 3 people. Even watching the How To video on the game website, setting up the game for the first time was a bit intimidating. There's A LOT there. But once we started to play, things fell into place pretty quickly. After a short while, the actions and options became fairly intuitive. One thing that could have been explained a bit better is getting out of town to the outskirts. Because the Warm Welcome intro game only uses two boards, there are only two real ways out of the town in order to Endeavor. Also, it was unclear to us if one automatically transported to the outskirts tile once getting to the edge of town, or if that was another step. We might have spent more Grit than necessary moving from one place to another.   For me, the Warm Welcome intro game was just long enough to fill an evening, especially after spending 20 min to watch the How To Play video and another 15 min to set up the game. We fumbled through our first play, clarifying actions and rules as we went along. I think any more than what we did would have been overwhelming. After a few rounds, we got into the swing of things quickly. My buddy won with all four missions accomplished, while I only completed one, lol. I look forward to playing it again and diving in deeper into the game.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Moppersmurf', 'comment': 'M.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'motchismo', 'comment': 'KS DLX', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'murki', 'comment': 'to follow', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Not_People', 'comment': "A neat sandbox western that walks you through increasingly complex rules via different scenario setups.  However, not our favorite sandbox game.  And due to the increasing scenario complexity you will always be starting less interesting plays when you bring in new people.  Unless you push them to advanced play right away, which may overload them with choice.  Having something like the ambitions from Outer Rim would help direct new players who want to start off in an advanced mode.  Regardless, we didn't find a whole lot calling us to come back to this one.  Also, oddly, the advanced side of the boards switch graphics from day to night and are less nice to look at overall.  So once everyone gets accustomed to the game repeated plays happen on the uglier side of the boards.", 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'panamajr', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Parabellum76', 'comment': 'Talk about inclusive character design... 4 initial characters to choose from and by some "miracle" they happen cover the full spectrum, by todays holier than thou standards, which also now blends into board game designs for better or worse.   Something for everybody to pick from, I know which character would be first pick for most gamers though.   I am just not convinced the distribution and mix of characters is realistic for the time period and therefore I am out. Not for me.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'paulrrahn', 'comment': 'Estimated delivery Dec 2022 (Nov 2023)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'pbrunica', 'comment': 'Kickstarter backed. Ends August 12, 2021. Motto: Wish you were here!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Poins', 'comment': '+ Dead Settlers Map', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'PPMP', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'puggi', 'comment': 'A few months ago, I made the decision to expand my board game collection with games that can fill an entire evening in terms of gameplay length and immersion. For each classic theme, I aimed to have at least one of these "big games," as I like to call them. Something like "Nemesis for space and aliens, Everrain for seafaring, Spring and Autumn for China," and so on. Bantam was my hope for representing the big game in the Western theme, and what can I say... 10/10, jackpot, bullseye, pick your favorite expression. This game has such a great variety of possibilities, each game is different. And the best part: no matter which way you choose, you can make points with it. I saw someone winning with killing every NPC he could find, I saw someone winning with selling wood…. This game is wonderful. Strategy tip: for experienced player (e.g. Brass Level) I encourage you to directly start with Master of Chaos, I tried it two times with different 4P-groups and each time it worked after two turns. A much greater game experience than the tutorial', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'rarroyo', 'comment': '100 Bantam Planet', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'RebJaenus', 'comment': "Cool, open world, western themed Immersive Tabletop Sim (their term).  Has a lot going on and is less fun with less of the stuff added.  Also needs to be played with the right mindset.  If played as a simple race to X number of points, nobody has much fun, because the point goals are a touch too easy, but if played with the open world, exploration mindset, it's very fun.", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'rendezvous_salatiga', 'comment': 'Great Sandbox Game', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'rigogarcia', 'comment': "Great game! My partner went in completely cold (hadn't read the rulebook), and I got her running within 20min. The ruleset and game mechanics are so intuitive. I can't wait to continue integrating additional gameplay features into future play throughs.  Solid design. Highly recommend! Great job, Ike and team! :)", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'Rivka', 'comment': 'Played at a library game session. Pros: interesting theme, high quality components, reasonable learning curve. Cons: definitely on the longer side of the time estimate (could easily take all afternoon), lots of fiddly components', 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'Saw_Dust_Muncher', 'comment': "I love the them, mechanics, and team that put this together, can't wait to see what they do next", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Secrethippy', 'comment': 'Just a really fun game, with loads of variety and paths to choose on your way to victory. Player interaction can be as much or as little as you want it to be. The way the game build up the modules is great. There’s just so much to do. 100% recommend', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'SentoTM', 'comment': 'No suelen morarme tanto tanto estos juegos, pero me llama. El Oeste siempre me llama... Bandolerooooooo', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sierosehero', 'comment': 'Deutsche Version', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sordeq', 'comment': 'Always a fun time. Every time we play it, even the teaching games are a blast.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'SupermanDX', 'comment': "Mark won via contest. He'll pass on whenever it's delivered.", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'SUPRAMAN79', 'comment': 'Amazing game. Backed this as I was a massive fan of Western Legends but this game is Western Legends x 100. So many ways to score points. Yet to win a game but still keen to play and play again', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'TableForTwoPlayers', 'comment': "Bantam West is an incredibly thematic, immersive simulation/sandbox game.  So much so that even when the game end is triggered, I want to keep going just to see what buttons I can push and levers I can pull.  It strikes a good balance between being a strategic action efficiency game and having just enough luck to do the wild west theme justice.  There are lots of interesting decisions to be made: how much precious time/resources do I spend leveling up my character before I pursue victory points?  Do I spend my hard earned resources to level up my endeavor, making it easier to get them in the future, or do I sell them for cash?  At the same time, the random elements lead to moments of tension, excitement, and emergent storytelling.  The biggest downside to me is, because this game is such a detailed simulation, it is a tough teach.  When we played the intro scenario, it took quite a long time to teach, yet for all that, the actual gameplay was dead simple.  It felt like that initial scenario was a lot of work for little payoff, because it was very short, and half the mechanics in the game were not available to us.  I don't really see a way around this because any additional mechanics might have been too much for a first play, but it left us a bit unsatisfied.  Once we got to the Shadow Governor's scenario though, everything opened up and we were very glad we stuck with it.  Overall, I thoroughly enjoy this one, and can't wait to get it to the table again.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Teslavstwain', 'comment': 'Such a fun, unique game! A lot to think about and heavy on setup, but so much fun packed into one box! I love the different take on deck-fighting and the many options for things to do on a turn. Highly recommend this one and am hopeful I am getting my hands on a copy through a friend!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'tgravil', 'comment': 'My new favorite board game.  Lots to do in an open world environment. They definitely knock this game out of the park on their first try! Looking forward to expansions.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Thing12Games', 'comment': 'GREAT game with a REALLY bad rule book. Worth struggling through the rules and ambiguity though.  Kinda feels like a western Xia.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'VetruvianGamer', 'comment': '3-4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'VittorioV', 'comment': 'Unique and fun boardgame', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'VJBeam', 'comment': 'I’ve been very lucky to get to play Bantam West over the last 6 months and have seen it continue to develop to a point now that this game really is something special! It’s one of those EPIC games!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Wreckage', 'comment': 'I like the theme, naturally, and from talking with the amazing access they provide I like it even more.  This one will be highly anticipated.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'YogiBaldGuru', 'comment': 'En', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'zenmazster', 'comment': "Solo'ing now to be able to teach it to game group next week.  Seems cool and vast with a lot of possibilities.  You'll for sure need a magnifying glass to read important info on some cards.  It's an odd production choice.  Take the smallest text you've seen on cards and shrink it another 50%.  That's my only complaint so far, game looks great besides that.  Random: i will say squarely between pages 8-9 was one of the coolest and most interesting things ive seen in a rulebook.  Its the fun touches like that that add tons of personality to the game.  Fun fact, before i realized what it was was, i thought it was a ton of ants that had somehoW invaded my rulebook and i threw it in the air and screamed LOL.  It looks soo real.", 'rating': 'n/a'}], 'name': 'Bantam West'})
('game', {'comments': [{'username': 'ADHDefn', 'comment': 'Won via the #onboardolympics', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Aglarendil', 'comment': 'Really nice, original mechanics, as idea, and open to dovelopment. Mats really good, a kick well made. Hoping they can improve solo mode because big part of experience it’s related to more players, now, maybe. I will improve the solo mode.  Anyway, if I can imagine some add on I guess: 1-  EVENT CARD Are funny but few. But they can really improve experience and consent to better stay in old west. Cause of cost of cards I suggest an axpansion with app or a rich book (like in THIS WAR OF MINE”. 2- SCENARIOS with story. The game has been really well made and give a lot of possibility. It is a really open system, so we can build also some movies expansions western movies dedicated… 3- RULEBOOK is well made but really some infos are too few explained, need to improve explocations, specially about movement; 4- CHARACTERS. We can build a Character Creating System. My idea is to do a mix question/answer system and dice, where you choose something about you, your story, your family, your experience and the sistem lead you to build different characters, maybe with personal life objective; 5- STORYTELLING . Because of the nature of game, we feel to find a personal experience, the system consent it. So, even if someone don’t like (but have commercial good results- see Pandemic serie…) is possible propose some legacy expansions, where you have unique scenarios but with each of them you don’t lose your money because you can find new cards and maps that you can use expanding your collection.  Many things to do! Ike… put peoples at work!1 hahahha', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'amanal_lake', 'comment': 'I threw away 2 of the Gametrayz as to get the game in the box. There is a lack of detail here that has me concerned about the game play.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'Annihalus', 'comment': 'This was a disappointment for me. I love the artwork. I like how sandbox it is. Components were good. I found the characters uninteresting and not very unique, just slightly different. Will admit hype may have been high.', 'rating': '4'}, {'username': 'armor_11', 'comment': "Managed to get a three player game of this in on Tabletop Simulator.  I don't own the physical game yet, but I have backed it on Kickstarter.  Although I have only scratched the surface of the game, we had a blast playing.  There are many paths to victory and the theme is rich and deep.  There are trophies to acquire, physical combat, NPC's to contend with, skill development, the list goes on and on. When they say that this is a sandbox game, they aren't kidding. But that doesn't mean that this is a ruleset looking for a game. It's just that you can win the game a variety of ways. I'm REALLY looking forward to getting my copy. ", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'benztowner', 'comment': 'German Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bhb_cosmos', 'comment': 'Best for 4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BlackRum', 'comment': 'Rating after Intro and first glance on full ruleset. This looks like a potential Golden Geek Game  Update: 10/10 after Playing the Master of Chaos Version. Best Big Game 2023 from my POV.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'boardgamedoktor', 'comment': 'Backerkit, Bedesbach', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bpa7403', 'comment': 'Great Experience, and I really enjoyed it. A lot of unique things going on in this game. It is one of those games that just let you have fun and have an imagination. I kind of compare it to Red Dead Redemption. It\'s a big open-world game and has different pathways to victory. If you like pulling off goals and tasks, this one is for you. The goals and tasks are random for each character in every game. I love the rock-paper-scissors combat mechanic and how you can augment it with weapons and items. The way some items can be used in combat, or they can be exhausted during gameplay.  The resource generation with the cabin is great. The various ways you earn points in the game can be a lot, but it does not feel overwhelming. My favorite is the Bank Note. Since I have played with everything, it will be hard to play it without everything. The game allows you to use your imagination. The game is its own thematic animal. There are also extra things in the game that cannot be utilized yet (future expansion material). I am glad they plan on expanding on the game. I love what the creator is doing with the whole Bantam Planet website. The artwork in the game is amazing. There are a few things I did have some concerns with. Some of the inserts did not fit sleeved cards. However, I did come up with my own solution until they fix the issue. I wish there was more characters to choose from. I will say that the rule book is a little rough. However, the game\'s creators in the forums respond to rule questions regularly. The solo is really fun, however, If you can\'t take a thematic loss at the end then this one is not for you. Yes, you can die in the solo and the game is over and you have to restart. There is no re-spawn in solo. There is some "take that" in it. Which I love. But some gamers have hard times recovering from a swingy loss and may make their experience not good. If you use your "don\'t take that" handicap card, then this one is not for you. Sometimes the player interaction can be very minimal if none at all.  I love the events, however I wish there were more than just 54 and in solo, you only utilize only a few of those. Some of the events go back into the deck until you can master what the event is requiring.  There seems to be some things missing, but from what I can tell, they may or will be included in future expansions (like the train). You cannot use the train station for anything yet. The game boards do feel disconnected from each other, but not a big deal. Not a big deal for me, but the game is a table hog and may take some time to setup and play based on player count and experience. I usually do not like dice rolling to decide things, however there is some dice mitigation and re-rolls. Lastly, unfortunately I am not going to compare it to other games. Yeah, it may have taken some mechanics from other games. But there are many games out there that do that exact same thing and gamers still play them. I feel this game will open up new ways for other games to be developed. Thanks for reading and have fun.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'bramadan', 'comment': 'To Try', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BrandonCrul', 'comment': 'The Shadow Governors Hide details The frontier looks even more beautiful through the eyes of the Shadow Governors. You will receive your very own physical copy of Bantam West plus all unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals, Metal Coins, Terrain Upgrade Pack, Upgraded First Player Token, and a signed Postcard!  This item does not include shipping. You will be asked to pay it after Kickstarter ends from the Pledge Manager. See the shipping section for more details.  INCLUDES: Bantam West Base Game All Unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals Metal Coins Terrain Upgrade Pack Upgraded First Player Token Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard  + Card Sleeves', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Bricklebrit_Games', 'comment': 'I just unboxed it. I will return to rate and review shortly.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bwohmie', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge - Like New', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'chicobrew', 'comment': "Such a great game. I really hope for expansions. Can't say enough about how great it is. Only critique is the organization of the rulebook. It's not bad. But could be better. And I Hope for some exploration tiles next round", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'cmlee1017', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DButts', 'comment': "Great open sandbox game, you can decide how you want to play and aim for that and then react as other things happen and change things if needed. So many cool stories that come out when you play. Great game!! Can't wait for my copy to arrive!!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'deeplydapper', 'comment': "Kickstarter: Shadow Governer's Pledge", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'devilq8', 'comment': 'Governor pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DiceQueen27', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Dickhillman', 'comment': 'May Sell', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'dingo76', 'comment': 'Sandbox- Western.. :-) So cool. Sometimes, a crazy Manual ;-), but if you understand it, it is very easy, so many oppinions to play with you char. a realy great game. i love it.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'D_B_Games', 'comment': 'I have played with the designer Ike and some other fine folk online. This game is absolutely amazing. It is complex, well thought out and gives tonnes of choice. Wonderful stories and fun times are to be had here for sure. Highly recommended!!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Erikk78', 'comment': "Rating after the 'warm up' scenarios. Not impressed yet, but lets see where it goes.", 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'evkefalas', 'comment': 'Home on the Range pledge Plus all sgs', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'fODDER841', 'comment': 'Have had a great time playing this on BGA a number of times.  Really looking forward to the physical copy.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'futari', 'comment': '2024 59,49€', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'garyjgeoaccess', 'comment': 'UPDATED AFTER A RECENT PAIR OF GAMES.  Simply put, Bantam West looks great sitting on the table. The layout is top notch. The character models are very good, and they come with a wash already applied so that you don\'t really even need to paint them. They look great right out of the box. And the box itself is stuffed with content, for the various game modes, from the Warm Welcome introductory mode to the Solo mode.   The game designer was very responsive throughout the entire Kickstarter campaign. For a first time game developer using Kickstarter for the first time, the campaign went very well. It was a model of how to run your first Kickstarter (and reminded me favorably of Obsession, also by a first-timer).   This one was my most eagerly anticipated and awaited titles (at least of the past couple years). But I have to admit the game play at first came as a disappointment. Nonetheless, the game is growing on me! The game play mechanics contain nothing new or innovative. But games are almost always filled with tension.   SOLO GAME PLAY To see what I\'m talking about regarding game play mechanics, it\'s useful to examine how the Solo game works, in which you get tasks that are little more than busy work. The first task simply has you move to your choice of four destinations, pick up a token, and return to the saloon with it. Then you have to venture onto terrain tiles and do enough logging that you can build a cabin. Next up, you have to work on endeavoring in all four types so that you can reap the benefits by making money, buying weapons, buying a horse, etc. In short, you have to do the standard business of the game. But this business has little sense of strategy when played in solo mode. Again, it\'s busy work. And I don\'t need games that provide simple dice rolling mechanics, and that\'s what we have here. I want game mechanics that really push me to think strategically (as in Legends of Andor, for example). And this game comes up way short in this respect.   If you are drawn to this game because it supposedly supports solo play, you will likely be in for a big disappointment. However, there is a lot to like in Bantam West ... see the next section.  MULTI-PLAYER GAMEs Okay, forget about Solo mode. This is NOT a good solo game. But how does it do as a multi-player game? Here, the results are much more encouraging. The gameplay is in fact quite enjoyable as the characters roam around old West locations. It\'s all about earning "notoriety." There are STANDARD ways players can earn notoriety. But each player also gets a TO-DO list that provides additional opportunities. Plus as players tackle the game\'s more advanced modes, more mechanics for earning notoriety become available, such as hiring "riders" and tackling a variety of "pursuits," or by depositing money in the bank and watching the balance grow (this strikes me as a strange mechanic for a western game!). The game gives players a broad canvas upon which to play out their western fantasies.   Play against real-live opponents works better than the game\'s solo mode not because the game mechanics are any better (the mechanics are exactly the same), but because now the players are in competition to acquire notoriety. So in head-to-head competition, the game play does have some tension, as players rush to check off items on their to-do lists and otherwise acquire notoriety by any means necessary.   I\'m not a big fan of the "Varied To-Do Lists," which sometimes are just plain unfair, given the character that a player might draw. There can be a complete disconnect between the character and the tasks on their to-do list. We have instead tried playing with the introductory to-do list for all our games, flipping the list to the B side after all players players have completed this A side. But admittedly, this keeps some of the character quirks (such as Hannah\'s pyromania) from playing out.   I might have some misgivings about the game play mechanics, but this is a fun game when played against one or more opponents, as you watch the characters struggle in the Old West. This game is all about theme.    THEME VS. MECHANICS Bantam West is for people who want to spend time in the old west, to walk the streets of a western town, to strike out into the harsh land on their own, to prospect, to forage, to hunt, to cut down trees. It allows you to torch all the buildings and cabins that you want (think HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER or UNFORGIVEN). It allows you to make your fortune mining (think TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE or PAINT YOUR WAGON). It allows you to become a minor lumber baron (think BIG TREES and COME AND GET IT). It allows you spend time at a saloon swilling down brews (movies too numerous to mention).   The game allows players to live in a world that scratches that itch for rolling back the clock 150 years and living on the American frontier. The game does not do this with game play that is new or surprising. On the contrary, the game play mechanics are unimaginative. For example, how does any player mine? They roll two dice. How does any player cut down trees? They roll two dice. How does any player hunt? You get it. They roll two dice. Etc. Each player starts with exactly the same level at the various endeavors, and then depending on how much they perform a given endeavor, their proficiency level increases. This is a strange game play choice given that each character has an array of skill ratings. You might think a character with more strength might be better at being a lumberjack, but no, all characters are totally equal in this respect. A character might be better at sneaking or negotiating or malice, but these SKILLS have little effect on how a character performs one of the main endeavors. This game-design decision was undoubtedly made so that the characters would start on a relatively level playing field (i.e., so that no one character would have a significant advantage over the rest), but it does have the effect of making the characters less impactful than their array of skill ratings might suggest.   No, this is NOT a game in which the developers came up with interesting game mechanics that they THEN wrapped with theme. This is a game that places a very high premium on building the western theme FIRST with game-play mechanics in the background, supporting that theme, allowing that theme to come to life. This is a decidedly old-fashioned approach to game design. Developers have moved away from this approach over the past couple of decades in favor of euro game mechanics. But Bantam West adheres to an older approach in which theme is everything and lackluster game play mechanics are forgiven.   Hey, I enjoy playing old-style games that are all about theme. Arkham Horror (the board game) was THE game that pulled me into the board gaming hobby nearly twenty years ago--and it\'s about as ugly (in terms of game mechanics) as a game can get. I enjoy good game mechanics but I also insist on themes that I find intriguing (such as the old West!). So how does Bantam West do on these terms? Read on.  THEME AND THE FUTURE Bantam West MOSTLY gets the western theme right. Yay! The game designers truly wanted to deliver a game that oozes the Old West from every element on the board. And on those terms the designers have succeeded.   I question some of their decisions, such as why so much pyromania? Alligators, really? Foraging? Huh. Where are the cattle herds? Where are the sod busters? Where are the cattle towns? But this stuff can and maybe will be added in expansions.   A railroad station is on the town tile, in the lower left corner. It doesn\'t do anything yet, but I feel confident it WILL in an expansion. Other hints -- e.g., a corn plant on an unused icon suggests farm land might be in the offing and a wagon wheel on another icon suggests a pioneer trail might be coming on a future terrain tile -- hints like these bode well for the game\'s future . The game can grow and become a more complete portrayal of life in the west. Players could conceivably even mix and match terrain tiles so the game play fits their expectations for a particular vision of the American western, or a view of the spaghetti western. (Maybe? Not sure that will ever happen, but one can hope.)  MORE GAME PLAY PARTICULARS (THE COMBAT DECK) Here is an example of a game-design decision that seems sort of strange to me. Consider the combat deck. At the start of the game, this is a simple deck of nine cards. Each character gets their own deck, with a third of these cards being customized for that character, with the other two thirds being standard combat cards. Players can add to this deck with combat cards acquired from the Gunsmith shop. During a fight, players don\'t know which cards they will draw to their hand until the combat has started--unless they launch an ambush--so the players decide to fight and THEN they find out what cards they have in their hand. Notice this is very different from games like Mage Knight, for example, in which everything a player does comes from the puzzle of the player\'s deck. Mage Knight makes every turn a puzzle, in which the player must figure out how to accomplish what they want to do given the cards in their hand. Bantam West doesn\'t give the players that puzzle. The players decide to fight first and then they are given a hand of cards to use. This seems backwards to me and it robs Bantam West of strategic decisions in favor of simple rock-paper-scissors mechanics. I don\'t really like how weapons only come into play if you\'re lucky enough to draw them. Otherwise, a player might be using their standard combat cards (brawl, tackle, block, etc.), unless again, it\'s an ambush. Only in an ambush can a player choose their first card. The game deserves a better system for fighting.  ABOUT THE RULE BOOK ... Like the game itself, the rulebook looks great.  There are lots of examples and illustrations to help players understand how this complex game works. But the rulebook only scratches the surface and doesn\'t provide many answers. It was evidently written by somewhat so familiar with the game that they had lost all sense of perspective on what NEW players needed to know. They assumed so much of the game is self-evident, such as the store interactions, which are not defined anywhere. Players must interpret the brief text and icons, but these store interaction spaces are NOT always self-evident. Some are quite difficult to decipher.  I\'ll use cabins as an example of what\'s wrong with the rule book. A section on "Building Cabins" provides many of the answers about how cabins work, but it doesn\'t provide everything. There is no one place in the rulebook that explains everything on the cabin cards. To learn what the resource/fire icons mean, you must turn to the section on Arson. To learn about the skill icon at the top of the card (in a triangle with the black background), you must turn to the section on fighting. In other words, for the resource/fire icons and the skill icon, players must know the purpose of the icon before they can find an explanation in the rulebook. I\'m going to repeat this because it\'s very important: To find an explanation in the rulebook, players frequently must already understand the purpose of the icon or the token or the whatever. This approach is not helpful for new players. A better approach would have been to explain in a quick summary everything on the cabin card and to supply page numbers and section title references for additional information. This is a problem repeated over and over in the rulebook, in which information is scattered throughout the pages. I wish the game had provided a reference manual that went over everything in detail, instead of this frequently scattershot approach.  UNBOXING AND STORAGE Yikes. This was probably the longest un-boxing session that I ever endured. Why? Because there are so many components in the box (a good thing, right?), I struggled with how to arrange everything. Do I dare punch out the pieces when I don\'t know how to use them yet? What should I bag together? Do I need to read the entire rulebook to figure out how to best store the pieces? (The answer to that last question is YES. Only after you know the game quite well will you come to grasp how to best store the components.) Labels have been placed on each group of components on the cardboard punch-out  sheets. So as I punched out each set of cardboard components, I bagged and wrote a note with that label. This process took a couple hours! But I sort of enjoy this process and the challenge of storage. Later on, I started combining elements in bags in ways that made sense to me (with my initial limited understanding of game play). But as I learned the game more, I found some of those groupings didn\'t make good sense and I rearranged them. I finally decided to group components by the five game-play modes and sorting character cards by each character (and leaving all the minis in their own holder). This helps get the game out of the box and back onto the table, but it\'s still a challenge setting up the game. (But luckily I\'m sort of masochistic in this respect and enjoy the process.)  WRAP-UP I wish the game designers the best of luck with this game. Ike and his crew ran one of the best Kickstarter campaigns that I have ever witnessed. He has been so responsive to supporter requests and tried to make this game fit the desires of everyone. I want to see him create more games to fill out his Bantam world. But I\'m concerned about the attention to game play mechanics.   Would I support another game in this line? I don\'t think so. In the 21st century, game play mechanics need to receive greater attention. Would I support an expansion for Bantam West? Maybe. Probably. I look forward to seeing additional terrain tiles. I want to see how the unused icons on the game boards will be put into use!   Even with my misgivings (which maybe I\'ve stressed too strongly), this is a fascinating game.', 'rating': '7.5'}, {'username': 'GateauDeLune', 'comment': 'Kickstarter.  Funded: August 12, 2021 Estimated: December 2022 Received: November 14, 2023', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GattoNero25', 'comment': 'Shadow Governour Pledge', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'GeekyBron', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge Completed Survey Oct 27, 2021 Includes: - Base game - All unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals - Metal Coins - Terrain Upgrade Pack - Upgraded First Player Token - Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard - Game Trayz', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GmanJ', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - due Nov-Dec 2024 [revised from September 2023] [revised from March to May 2023 [revised from December 2022] The Shadow Governors Pledge (US$150.00) - inc Bantam West Base Game (US$97.00) - inc Metal Coins (US$21.00) - inc Terrain Upgrade Pack (US$24.00) - inc Upgraded First Player Token (US$10.00) - inc Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard (US$15.00) + Card Sleeves (US$14.00) Shipping (US$14.00) https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/bantamplanet/bantam-west/description Look out for Enemy Upgrade Pack (stretch goal not met)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Gypsypunx', 'comment': 'EN edition. «Home on the range» pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hbksean', 'comment': 'Have played through just the intro, but there is huge potential for this game and I look forward to playing more complex scenarios', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'hiimjohn', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Game', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'HoserBelow', 'comment': 'TT', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hunterrogue', 'comment': 'Why play this when you can play Western Legends?  Mechanics are fiddly, combat very much so.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'imadeadend', 'comment': 'The rulebook is just straight up bad. Missing rules entirely (where does my character start?), lacks a ton of clarity, and has sections that conflict directly with the section that follows. Could barely get through a learning game and won’t be playing again.', 'rating': '3'}, {'username': 'jcustar07', 'comment': 'backed on KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jkozycz', 'comment': "Scratched an itch I've had in relation to sandbox style board games. Enjoyed the feeling of exploration and lore. Felt like there were so many options to create your own path. Daunting the first time, but more intuitive than it seems. Looking forward to what new adventures await in the future of Bantam Planet!", 'rating': '9.5'}, {'username': 'John163', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jo_Kari', 'comment': "This game is a great example of innovation. It takes the open world genre you'd expect to find in video games and refines it for a board game experience. The engaging but familiar skill based mechanics allow any player to immediately jump in and start exploring this vast world without first having to circumnavigate an unyielding learning curve. And the combat, oh! A deceptively simple system inspired by 'rock, paper, scissors' that somehow has the scope to tell new and exciting stories every time. The first time I played, I was hiding out in an abandoned shack till a rival gunslinger came barging in looking for my head and proposed to remove it from my shoulders. In the ensuing fight, we swung at each other around this dingy cabin till I shattered a window and leapt out. As I fled across the river, my rival stood outside firing pop shots into the water, desperate to catch me. But I was too quick and vanished into the trees. Now, I didn't have to work very hard to picture this story, the game told me this narrative with little more than a few cards with just a couple of words apiece. It truly is ingenious. I cannot recommend this game enough. Make sure you pick it up when the campaign launches!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'JTQuest', 'comment': 'KS ETA DEC 2022', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'KatDaddy', 'comment': 'A bad rule book is unforgivable!!!', 'rating': '5'}, {'username': 'kusti0152', 'comment': 'Based on introduction scenario. This was disappointement.I can see potential of this game but a way how you try to teach this game is not a good solution.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'landon1013', 'comment': 'I have only played the intro level, I need to re-rate after playing the "full" version of the game.  Category 0-5 Rating Experience (35%) - 4.5 Mechanics (20%) - 4 Involvement (20%) - 4 Game Length (10%) - 4 Weight of Game (10%) - 4 Aesthetics (5%) - 4 Score - 83.5 Star Rating - 8.35', 'rating': '8.35'}, {'username': 'Larryoturnbull', 'comment': 'Fantastic game with what looks like room to grow. Made use of FAQ, glossary and index. Played each mode and enjoyed the modes theme. Would have given it a 10 if it was easier to read the small text size in some important rules. Bring your magnifying glass and burn the west to the ground!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'LeonM19', 'comment': 'What a great game... a plethora of options what to do... a lot of stratrgy that can get quite complex the game is pretty modular and the thematic catched me.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'marcodegoede', 'comment': "Difficult to learn (lot of rules) but good to play after one try. We're going to play it again", 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'MaxBantamPlanet', 'comment': 'Best game ever? Ok fine, I am a little biased ; )', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'merlinsmess', 'comment': 'Kickstarter first 500', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'MigNix', 'comment': 'Seen this game evolve into one of the most special tabletop experiences I have ever had the pleasure of playing. The designer Ike Bruncardi should be proud of what he has accomplished. The level of detail is outstanding even in the prototype and I am so excited to see the final version... This is one of those rare gems to that will hopefully take the gaming world by storm to allow the world building to be expanded. Seriously impressive... Just Wow!', 'rating': '8.9'}, {'username': 'minh_han', 'comment': "I had been following this game since its beginnings on Kickstarter. Just the attention to detail during the planning and production of the game, along with extensive check-ins from the developers, made me look forward to getting it into my hands. When it arrived and I unboxed it, it did not disappoint. And, there's just SO MUCH there! The box is PACKED with material. The artwork and thematics are amazing. The quality of the materials is top notch. From the minis to the player boards to the linen-finished cards, everything feels so good in my hands. Unpacking it and putting everything in some semblance of order did take quite a while. I kinda regret not splurging on the Gametrayz insert. It would have made ordering the components much easier. And I wish the game came with more bags and of different sizes. I raided my bag collection to get all the components separated.  I just had my first ever play of the game with 3 people. Even watching the How To video on the game website, setting up the game for the first time was a bit intimidating. There's A LOT there. But once we started to play, things fell into place pretty quickly. After a short while, the actions and options became fairly intuitive. One thing that could have been explained a bit better is getting out of town to the outskirts. Because the Warm Welcome intro game only uses two boards, there are only two real ways out of the town in order to Endeavor. Also, it was unclear to us if one automatically transported to the outskirts tile once getting to the edge of town, or if that was another step. We might have spent more Grit than necessary moving from one place to another.   For me, the Warm Welcome intro game was just long enough to fill an evening, especially after spending 20 min to watch the How To Play video and another 15 min to set up the game. We fumbled through our first play, clarifying actions and rules as we went along. I think any more than what we did would have been overwhelming. After a few rounds, we got into the swing of things quickly. My buddy won with all four missions accomplished, while I only completed one, lol. I look forward to playing it again and diving in deeper into the game.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Moppersmurf', 'comment': 'M.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'motchismo', 'comment': 'KS DLX', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'murki', 'comment': 'to follow', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Not_People', 'comment': "A neat sandbox western that walks you through increasingly complex rules via different scenario setups.  However, not our favorite sandbox game.  And due to the increasing scenario complexity you will always be starting less interesting plays when you bring in new people.  Unless you push them to advanced play right away, which may overload them with choice.  Having something like the ambitions from Outer Rim would help direct new players who want to start off in an advanced mode.  Regardless, we didn't find a whole lot calling us to come back to this one.  Also, oddly, the advanced side of the boards switch graphics from day to night and are less nice to look at overall.  So once everyone gets accustomed to the game repeated plays happen on the uglier side of the boards.", 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'panamajr', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Parabellum76', 'comment': 'Talk about inclusive character design... 4 initial characters to choose from and by some "miracle" they happen cover the full spectrum, by todays holier than thou standards, which also now blends into board game designs for better or worse.   Something for everybody to pick from, I know which character would be first pick for most gamers though.   I am just not convinced the distribution and mix of characters is realistic for the time period and therefore I am out. Not for me.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'paulrrahn', 'comment': 'Estimated delivery Dec 2022 (Nov 2023)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'pbrunica', 'comment': 'Kickstarter backed. Ends August 12, 2021. Motto: Wish you were here!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Poins', 'comment': '+ Dead Settlers Map', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'PPMP', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'puggi', 'comment': 'A few months ago, I made the decision to expand my board game collection with games that can fill an entire evening in terms of gameplay length and immersion. For each classic theme, I aimed to have at least one of these "big games," as I like to call them. Something like "Nemesis for space and aliens, Everrain for seafaring, Spring and Autumn for China," and so on. Bantam was my hope for representing the big game in the Western theme, and what can I say... 10/10, jackpot, bullseye, pick your favorite expression. This game has such a great variety of possibilities, each game is different. And the best part: no matter which way you choose, you can make points with it. I saw someone winning with killing every NPC he could find, I saw someone winning with selling wood…. This game is wonderful. Strategy tip: for experienced player (e.g. Brass Level) I encourage you to directly start with Master of Chaos, I tried it two times with different 4P-groups and each time it worked after two turns. A much greater game experience than the tutorial', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'rarroyo', 'comment': '100 Bantam Planet', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'RebJaenus', 'comment': "Cool, open world, western themed Immersive Tabletop Sim (their term).  Has a lot going on and is less fun with less of the stuff added.  Also needs to be played with the right mindset.  If played as a simple race to X number of points, nobody has much fun, because the point goals are a touch too easy, but if played with the open world, exploration mindset, it's very fun.", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'rendezvous_salatiga', 'comment': 'Great Sandbox Game', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'rigogarcia', 'comment': "Great game! My partner went in completely cold (hadn't read the rulebook), and I got her running within 20min. The ruleset and game mechanics are so intuitive. I can't wait to continue integrating additional gameplay features into future play throughs.  Solid design. Highly recommend! Great job, Ike and team! :)", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'Rivka', 'comment': 'Played at a library game session. Pros: interesting theme, high quality components, reasonable learning curve. Cons: definitely on the longer side of the time estimate (could easily take all afternoon), lots of fiddly components', 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'Saw_Dust_Muncher', 'comment': "I love the them, mechanics, and team that put this together, can't wait to see what they do next", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Secrethippy', 'comment': 'Just a really fun game, with loads of variety and paths to choose on your way to victory. Player interaction can be as much or as little as you want it to be. The way the game build up the modules is great. There’s just so much to do. 100% recommend', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'SentoTM', 'comment': 'No suelen morarme tanto tanto estos juegos, pero me llama. El Oeste siempre me llama... Bandolerooooooo', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sierosehero', 'comment': 'Deutsche Version', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sordeq', 'comment': 'Always a fun time. Every time we play it, even the teaching games are a blast.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'SupermanDX', 'comment': "Mark won via contest. He'll pass on whenever it's delivered.", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'SUPRAMAN79', 'comment': 'Amazing game. Backed this as I was a massive fan of Western Legends but this game is Western Legends x 100. So many ways to score points. Yet to win a game but still keen to play and play again', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'TableForTwoPlayers', 'comment': "Bantam West is an incredibly thematic, immersive simulation/sandbox game.  So much so that even when the game end is triggered, I want to keep going just to see what buttons I can push and levers I can pull.  It strikes a good balance between being a strategic action efficiency game and having just enough luck to do the wild west theme justice.  There are lots of interesting decisions to be made: how much precious time/resources do I spend leveling up my character before I pursue victory points?  Do I spend my hard earned resources to level up my endeavor, making it easier to get them in the future, or do I sell them for cash?  At the same time, the random elements lead to moments of tension, excitement, and emergent storytelling.  The biggest downside to me is, because this game is such a detailed simulation, it is a tough teach.  When we played the intro scenario, it took quite a long time to teach, yet for all that, the actual gameplay was dead simple.  It felt like that initial scenario was a lot of work for little payoff, because it was very short, and half the mechanics in the game were not available to us.  I don't really see a way around this because any additional mechanics might have been too much for a first play, but it left us a bit unsatisfied.  Once we got to the Shadow Governor's scenario though, everything opened up and we were very glad we stuck with it.  Overall, I thoroughly enjoy this one, and can't wait to get it to the table again.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Teslavstwain', 'comment': 'Such a fun, unique game! A lot to think about and heavy on setup, but so much fun packed into one box! I love the different take on deck-fighting and the many options for things to do on a turn. Highly recommend this one and am hopeful I am getting my hands on a copy through a friend!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'tgravil', 'comment': 'My new favorite board game.  Lots to do in an open world environment. They definitely knock this game out of the park on their first try! Looking forward to expansions.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Thing12Games', 'comment': 'GREAT game with a REALLY bad rule book. Worth struggling through the rules and ambiguity though.  Kinda feels like a western Xia.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'VetruvianGamer', 'comment': '3-4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'VittorioV', 'comment': 'Unique and fun boardgame', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'VJBeam', 'comment': 'I’ve been very lucky to get to play Bantam West over the last 6 months and have seen it continue to develop to a point now that this game really is something special! It’s one of those EPIC games!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Wreckage', 'comment': 'I like the theme, naturally, and from talking with the amazing access they provide I like it even more.  This one will be highly anticipated.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'YogiBaldGuru', 'comment': 'En', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'zenmazster', 'comment': "Solo'ing now to be able to teach it to game group next week.  Seems cool and vast with a lot of possibilities.  You'll for sure need a magnifying glass to read important info on some cards.  It's an odd production choice.  Take the smallest text you've seen on cards and shrink it another 50%.  That's my only complaint so far, game looks great besides that.  Random: i will say squarely between pages 8-9 was one of the coolest and most interesting things ive seen in a rulebook.  Its the fun touches like that that add tons of personality to the game.  Fun fact, before i realized what it was was, i thought it was a ton of ants that had somehoW invaded my rulebook and i threw it in the air and screamed LOL.  It looks soo real.", 'rating': 'n/a'}], 'name': 'Bantam West'})
('game', {'comments': [{'username': 'ADHDefn', 'comment': 'Won via the #onboardolympics', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Aglarendil', 'comment': 'Really nice, original mechanics, as idea, and open to dovelopment. Mats really good, a kick well made. Hoping they can improve solo mode because big part of experience it’s related to more players, now, maybe. I will improve the solo mode.  Anyway, if I can imagine some add on I guess: 1-  EVENT CARD Are funny but few. But they can really improve experience and consent to better stay in old west. Cause of cost of cards I suggest an axpansion with app or a rich book (like in THIS WAR OF MINE”. 2- SCENARIOS with story. The game has been really well made and give a lot of possibility. It is a really open system, so we can build also some movies expansions western movies dedicated… 3- RULEBOOK is well made but really some infos are too few explained, need to improve explocations, specially about movement; 4- CHARACTERS. We can build a Character Creating System. My idea is to do a mix question/answer system and dice, where you choose something about you, your story, your family, your experience and the sistem lead you to build different characters, maybe with personal life objective; 5- STORYTELLING . Because of the nature of game, we feel to find a personal experience, the system consent it. So, even if someone don’t like (but have commercial good results- see Pandemic serie…) is possible propose some legacy expansions, where you have unique scenarios but with each of them you don’t lose your money because you can find new cards and maps that you can use expanding your collection.  Many things to do! Ike… put peoples at work!1 hahahha', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'amanal_lake', 'comment': 'I threw away 2 of the Gametrayz as to get the game in the box. There is a lack of detail here that has me concerned about the game play.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'Annihalus', 'comment': 'This was a disappointment for me. I love the artwork. I like how sandbox it is. Components were good. I found the characters uninteresting and not very unique, just slightly different. Will admit hype may have been high.', 'rating': '4'}, {'username': 'armor_11', 'comment': "Managed to get a three player game of this in on Tabletop Simulator.  I don't own the physical game yet, but I have backed it on Kickstarter.  Although I have only scratched the surface of the game, we had a blast playing.  There are many paths to victory and the theme is rich and deep.  There are trophies to acquire, physical combat, NPC's to contend with, skill development, the list goes on and on. When they say that this is a sandbox game, they aren't kidding. But that doesn't mean that this is a ruleset looking for a game. It's just that you can win the game a variety of ways. I'm REALLY looking forward to getting my copy. ", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'benztowner', 'comment': 'German Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bhb_cosmos', 'comment': 'Best for 4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BlackRum', 'comment': 'Rating after Intro and first glance on full ruleset. This looks like a potential Golden Geek Game  Update: 10/10 after Playing the Master of Chaos Version. Best Big Game 2023 from my POV.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'boardgamedoktor', 'comment': 'Backerkit, Bedesbach', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bpa7403', 'comment': 'Great Experience, and I really enjoyed it. A lot of unique things going on in this game. It is one of those games that just let you have fun and have an imagination. I kind of compare it to Red Dead Redemption. It\'s a big open-world game and has different pathways to victory. If you like pulling off goals and tasks, this one is for you. The goals and tasks are random for each character in every game. I love the rock-paper-scissors combat mechanic and how you can augment it with weapons and items. The way some items can be used in combat, or they can be exhausted during gameplay.  The resource generation with the cabin is great. The various ways you earn points in the game can be a lot, but it does not feel overwhelming. My favorite is the Bank Note. Since I have played with everything, it will be hard to play it without everything. The game allows you to use your imagination. The game is its own thematic animal. There are also extra things in the game that cannot be utilized yet (future expansion material). I am glad they plan on expanding on the game. I love what the creator is doing with the whole Bantam Planet website. The artwork in the game is amazing. There are a few things I did have some concerns with. Some of the inserts did not fit sleeved cards. However, I did come up with my own solution until they fix the issue. I wish there was more characters to choose from. I will say that the rule book is a little rough. However, the game\'s creators in the forums respond to rule questions regularly. The solo is really fun, however, If you can\'t take a thematic loss at the end then this one is not for you. Yes, you can die in the solo and the game is over and you have to restart. There is no re-spawn in solo. There is some "take that" in it. Which I love. But some gamers have hard times recovering from a swingy loss and may make their experience not good. If you use your "don\'t take that" handicap card, then this one is not for you. Sometimes the player interaction can be very minimal if none at all.  I love the events, however I wish there were more than just 54 and in solo, you only utilize only a few of those. Some of the events go back into the deck until you can master what the event is requiring.  There seems to be some things missing, but from what I can tell, they may or will be included in future expansions (like the train). You cannot use the train station for anything yet. The game boards do feel disconnected from each other, but not a big deal. Not a big deal for me, but the game is a table hog and may take some time to setup and play based on player count and experience. I usually do not like dice rolling to decide things, however there is some dice mitigation and re-rolls. Lastly, unfortunately I am not going to compare it to other games. Yeah, it may have taken some mechanics from other games. But there are many games out there that do that exact same thing and gamers still play them. I feel this game will open up new ways for other games to be developed. Thanks for reading and have fun.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'bramadan', 'comment': 'To Try', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'BrandonCrul', 'comment': 'The Shadow Governors Hide details The frontier looks even more beautiful through the eyes of the Shadow Governors. You will receive your very own physical copy of Bantam West plus all unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals, Metal Coins, Terrain Upgrade Pack, Upgraded First Player Token, and a signed Postcard!  This item does not include shipping. You will be asked to pay it after Kickstarter ends from the Pledge Manager. See the shipping section for more details.  INCLUDES: Bantam West Base Game All Unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals Metal Coins Terrain Upgrade Pack Upgraded First Player Token Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard  + Card Sleeves', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Bricklebrit_Games', 'comment': 'I just unboxed it. I will return to rate and review shortly.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'bwohmie', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge - Like New', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'chicobrew', 'comment': "Such a great game. I really hope for expansions. Can't say enough about how great it is. Only critique is the organization of the rulebook. It's not bad. But could be better. And I Hope for some exploration tiles next round", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'cmlee1017', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DButts', 'comment': "Great open sandbox game, you can decide how you want to play and aim for that and then react as other things happen and change things if needed. So many cool stories that come out when you play. Great game!! Can't wait for my copy to arrive!!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'deeplydapper', 'comment': "Kickstarter: Shadow Governer's Pledge", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'devilq8', 'comment': 'Governor pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'DiceQueen27', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Dickhillman', 'comment': 'May Sell', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'dingo76', 'comment': 'Sandbox- Western.. :-) So cool. Sometimes, a crazy Manual ;-), but if you understand it, it is very easy, so many oppinions to play with you char. a realy great game. i love it.', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'D_B_Games', 'comment': 'I have played with the designer Ike and some other fine folk online. This game is absolutely amazing. It is complex, well thought out and gives tonnes of choice. Wonderful stories and fun times are to be had here for sure. Highly recommended!!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Erikk78', 'comment': "Rating after the 'warm up' scenarios. Not impressed yet, but lets see where it goes.", 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'evkefalas', 'comment': 'Home on the Range pledge Plus all sgs', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'fODDER841', 'comment': 'Have had a great time playing this on BGA a number of times.  Really looking forward to the physical copy.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'futari', 'comment': '2024 59,49€', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'garyjgeoaccess', 'comment': 'UPDATED AFTER A RECENT PAIR OF GAMES.  Simply put, Bantam West looks great sitting on the table. The layout is top notch. The character models are very good, and they come with a wash already applied so that you don\'t really even need to paint them. They look great right out of the box. And the box itself is stuffed with content, for the various game modes, from the Warm Welcome introductory mode to the Solo mode.   The game designer was very responsive throughout the entire Kickstarter campaign. For a first time game developer using Kickstarter for the first time, the campaign went very well. It was a model of how to run your first Kickstarter (and reminded me favorably of Obsession, also by a first-timer).   This one was my most eagerly anticipated and awaited titles (at least of the past couple years). But I have to admit the game play at first came as a disappointment. Nonetheless, the game is growing on me! The game play mechanics contain nothing new or innovative. But games are almost always filled with tension.   SOLO GAME PLAY To see what I\'m talking about regarding game play mechanics, it\'s useful to examine how the Solo game works, in which you get tasks that are little more than busy work. The first task simply has you move to your choice of four destinations, pick up a token, and return to the saloon with it. Then you have to venture onto terrain tiles and do enough logging that you can build a cabin. Next up, you have to work on endeavoring in all four types so that you can reap the benefits by making money, buying weapons, buying a horse, etc. In short, you have to do the standard business of the game. But this business has little sense of strategy when played in solo mode. Again, it\'s busy work. And I don\'t need games that provide simple dice rolling mechanics, and that\'s what we have here. I want game mechanics that really push me to think strategically (as in Legends of Andor, for example). And this game comes up way short in this respect.   If you are drawn to this game because it supposedly supports solo play, you will likely be in for a big disappointment. However, there is a lot to like in Bantam West ... see the next section.  MULTI-PLAYER GAMEs Okay, forget about Solo mode. This is NOT a good solo game. But how does it do as a multi-player game? Here, the results are much more encouraging. The gameplay is in fact quite enjoyable as the characters roam around old West locations. It\'s all about earning "notoriety." There are STANDARD ways players can earn notoriety. But each player also gets a TO-DO list that provides additional opportunities. Plus as players tackle the game\'s more advanced modes, more mechanics for earning notoriety become available, such as hiring "riders" and tackling a variety of "pursuits," or by depositing money in the bank and watching the balance grow (this strikes me as a strange mechanic for a western game!). The game gives players a broad canvas upon which to play out their western fantasies.   Play against real-live opponents works better than the game\'s solo mode not because the game mechanics are any better (the mechanics are exactly the same), but because now the players are in competition to acquire notoriety. So in head-to-head competition, the game play does have some tension, as players rush to check off items on their to-do lists and otherwise acquire notoriety by any means necessary.   I\'m not a big fan of the "Varied To-Do Lists," which sometimes are just plain unfair, given the character that a player might draw. There can be a complete disconnect between the character and the tasks on their to-do list. We have instead tried playing with the introductory to-do list for all our games, flipping the list to the B side after all players players have completed this A side. But admittedly, this keeps some of the character quirks (such as Hannah\'s pyromania) from playing out.   I might have some misgivings about the game play mechanics, but this is a fun game when played against one or more opponents, as you watch the characters struggle in the Old West. This game is all about theme.    THEME VS. MECHANICS Bantam West is for people who want to spend time in the old west, to walk the streets of a western town, to strike out into the harsh land on their own, to prospect, to forage, to hunt, to cut down trees. It allows you to torch all the buildings and cabins that you want (think HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER or UNFORGIVEN). It allows you to make your fortune mining (think TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE or PAINT YOUR WAGON). It allows you to become a minor lumber baron (think BIG TREES and COME AND GET IT). It allows you spend time at a saloon swilling down brews (movies too numerous to mention).   The game allows players to live in a world that scratches that itch for rolling back the clock 150 years and living on the American frontier. The game does not do this with game play that is new or surprising. On the contrary, the game play mechanics are unimaginative. For example, how does any player mine? They roll two dice. How does any player cut down trees? They roll two dice. How does any player hunt? You get it. They roll two dice. Etc. Each player starts with exactly the same level at the various endeavors, and then depending on how much they perform a given endeavor, their proficiency level increases. This is a strange game play choice given that each character has an array of skill ratings. You might think a character with more strength might be better at being a lumberjack, but no, all characters are totally equal in this respect. A character might be better at sneaking or negotiating or malice, but these SKILLS have little effect on how a character performs one of the main endeavors. This game-design decision was undoubtedly made so that the characters would start on a relatively level playing field (i.e., so that no one character would have a significant advantage over the rest), but it does have the effect of making the characters less impactful than their array of skill ratings might suggest.   No, this is NOT a game in which the developers came up with interesting game mechanics that they THEN wrapped with theme. This is a game that places a very high premium on building the western theme FIRST with game-play mechanics in the background, supporting that theme, allowing that theme to come to life. This is a decidedly old-fashioned approach to game design. Developers have moved away from this approach over the past couple of decades in favor of euro game mechanics. But Bantam West adheres to an older approach in which theme is everything and lackluster game play mechanics are forgiven.   Hey, I enjoy playing old-style games that are all about theme. Arkham Horror (the board game) was THE game that pulled me into the board gaming hobby nearly twenty years ago--and it\'s about as ugly (in terms of game mechanics) as a game can get. I enjoy good game mechanics but I also insist on themes that I find intriguing (such as the old West!). So how does Bantam West do on these terms? Read on.  THEME AND THE FUTURE Bantam West MOSTLY gets the western theme right. Yay! The game designers truly wanted to deliver a game that oozes the Old West from every element on the board. And on those terms the designers have succeeded.   I question some of their decisions, such as why so much pyromania? Alligators, really? Foraging? Huh. Where are the cattle herds? Where are the sod busters? Where are the cattle towns? But this stuff can and maybe will be added in expansions.   A railroad station is on the town tile, in the lower left corner. It doesn\'t do anything yet, but I feel confident it WILL in an expansion. Other hints -- e.g., a corn plant on an unused icon suggests farm land might be in the offing and a wagon wheel on another icon suggests a pioneer trail might be coming on a future terrain tile -- hints like these bode well for the game\'s future . The game can grow and become a more complete portrayal of life in the west. Players could conceivably even mix and match terrain tiles so the game play fits their expectations for a particular vision of the American western, or a view of the spaghetti western. (Maybe? Not sure that will ever happen, but one can hope.)  MORE GAME PLAY PARTICULARS (THE COMBAT DECK) Here is an example of a game-design decision that seems sort of strange to me. Consider the combat deck. At the start of the game, this is a simple deck of nine cards. Each character gets their own deck, with a third of these cards being customized for that character, with the other two thirds being standard combat cards. Players can add to this deck with combat cards acquired from the Gunsmith shop. During a fight, players don\'t know which cards they will draw to their hand until the combat has started--unless they launch an ambush--so the players decide to fight and THEN they find out what cards they have in their hand. Notice this is very different from games like Mage Knight, for example, in which everything a player does comes from the puzzle of the player\'s deck. Mage Knight makes every turn a puzzle, in which the player must figure out how to accomplish what they want to do given the cards in their hand. Bantam West doesn\'t give the players that puzzle. The players decide to fight first and then they are given a hand of cards to use. This seems backwards to me and it robs Bantam West of strategic decisions in favor of simple rock-paper-scissors mechanics. I don\'t really like how weapons only come into play if you\'re lucky enough to draw them. Otherwise, a player might be using their standard combat cards (brawl, tackle, block, etc.), unless again, it\'s an ambush. Only in an ambush can a player choose their first card. The game deserves a better system for fighting.  ABOUT THE RULE BOOK ... Like the game itself, the rulebook looks great.  There are lots of examples and illustrations to help players understand how this complex game works. But the rulebook only scratches the surface and doesn\'t provide many answers. It was evidently written by somewhat so familiar with the game that they had lost all sense of perspective on what NEW players needed to know. They assumed so much of the game is self-evident, such as the store interactions, which are not defined anywhere. Players must interpret the brief text and icons, but these store interaction spaces are NOT always self-evident. Some are quite difficult to decipher.  I\'ll use cabins as an example of what\'s wrong with the rule book. A section on "Building Cabins" provides many of the answers about how cabins work, but it doesn\'t provide everything. There is no one place in the rulebook that explains everything on the cabin cards. To learn what the resource/fire icons mean, you must turn to the section on Arson. To learn about the skill icon at the top of the card (in a triangle with the black background), you must turn to the section on fighting. In other words, for the resource/fire icons and the skill icon, players must know the purpose of the icon before they can find an explanation in the rulebook. I\'m going to repeat this because it\'s very important: To find an explanation in the rulebook, players frequently must already understand the purpose of the icon or the token or the whatever. This approach is not helpful for new players. A better approach would have been to explain in a quick summary everything on the cabin card and to supply page numbers and section title references for additional information. This is a problem repeated over and over in the rulebook, in which information is scattered throughout the pages. I wish the game had provided a reference manual that went over everything in detail, instead of this frequently scattershot approach.  UNBOXING AND STORAGE Yikes. This was probably the longest un-boxing session that I ever endured. Why? Because there are so many components in the box (a good thing, right?), I struggled with how to arrange everything. Do I dare punch out the pieces when I don\'t know how to use them yet? What should I bag together? Do I need to read the entire rulebook to figure out how to best store the pieces? (The answer to that last question is YES. Only after you know the game quite well will you come to grasp how to best store the components.) Labels have been placed on each group of components on the cardboard punch-out  sheets. So as I punched out each set of cardboard components, I bagged and wrote a note with that label. This process took a couple hours! But I sort of enjoy this process and the challenge of storage. Later on, I started combining elements in bags in ways that made sense to me (with my initial limited understanding of game play). But as I learned the game more, I found some of those groupings didn\'t make good sense and I rearranged them. I finally decided to group components by the five game-play modes and sorting character cards by each character (and leaving all the minis in their own holder). This helps get the game out of the box and back onto the table, but it\'s still a challenge setting up the game. (But luckily I\'m sort of masochistic in this respect and enjoy the process.)  WRAP-UP I wish the game designers the best of luck with this game. Ike and his crew ran one of the best Kickstarter campaigns that I have ever witnessed. He has been so responsive to supporter requests and tried to make this game fit the desires of everyone. I want to see him create more games to fill out his Bantam world. But I\'m concerned about the attention to game play mechanics.   Would I support another game in this line? I don\'t think so. In the 21st century, game play mechanics need to receive greater attention. Would I support an expansion for Bantam West? Maybe. Probably. I look forward to seeing additional terrain tiles. I want to see how the unused icons on the game boards will be put into use!   Even with my misgivings (which maybe I\'ve stressed too strongly), this is a fascinating game.', 'rating': '7.5'}, {'username': 'GateauDeLune', 'comment': 'Kickstarter.  Funded: August 12, 2021 Estimated: December 2022 Received: November 14, 2023', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GattoNero25', 'comment': 'Shadow Governour Pledge', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'GeekyBron', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - The Shadow Governors Pledge Completed Survey Oct 27, 2021 Includes: - Base game - All unlocked Green Star Stretch Goals - Metal Coins - Terrain Upgrade Pack - Upgraded First Player Token - Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard - Game Trayz', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'GmanJ', 'comment': 'Kickstarter - due Nov-Dec 2024 [revised from September 2023] [revised from March to May 2023 [revised from December 2022] The Shadow Governors Pledge (US$150.00) - inc Bantam West Base Game (US$97.00) - inc Metal Coins (US$21.00) - inc Terrain Upgrade Pack (US$24.00) - inc Upgraded First Player Token (US$10.00) - inc Collectible Bantam Planet Postcard (US$15.00) + Card Sleeves (US$14.00) Shipping (US$14.00) https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/bantamplanet/bantam-west/description Look out for Enemy Upgrade Pack (stretch goal not met)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Gypsypunx', 'comment': 'EN edition. «Home on the range» pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hbksean', 'comment': 'Have played through just the intro, but there is huge potential for this game and I look forward to playing more complex scenarios', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'hiimjohn', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Game', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'HoserBelow', 'comment': 'TT', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'hunterrogue', 'comment': 'Why play this when you can play Western Legends?  Mechanics are fiddly, combat very much so.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'imadeadend', 'comment': 'The rulebook is just straight up bad. Missing rules entirely (where does my character start?), lacks a ton of clarity, and has sections that conflict directly with the section that follows. Could barely get through a learning game and won’t be playing again.', 'rating': '3'}, {'username': 'jcustar07', 'comment': 'backed on KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jkozycz', 'comment': "Scratched an itch I've had in relation to sandbox style board games. Enjoyed the feeling of exploration and lore. Felt like there were so many options to create your own path. Daunting the first time, but more intuitive than it seems. Looking forward to what new adventures await in the future of Bantam Planet!", 'rating': '9.5'}, {'username': 'John163', 'comment': 'Shadow Governor Pledge', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Jo_Kari', 'comment': "This game is a great example of innovation. It takes the open world genre you'd expect to find in video games and refines it for a board game experience. The engaging but familiar skill based mechanics allow any player to immediately jump in and start exploring this vast world without first having to circumnavigate an unyielding learning curve. And the combat, oh! A deceptively simple system inspired by 'rock, paper, scissors' that somehow has the scope to tell new and exciting stories every time. The first time I played, I was hiding out in an abandoned shack till a rival gunslinger came barging in looking for my head and proposed to remove it from my shoulders. In the ensuing fight, we swung at each other around this dingy cabin till I shattered a window and leapt out. As I fled across the river, my rival stood outside firing pop shots into the water, desperate to catch me. But I was too quick and vanished into the trees. Now, I didn't have to work very hard to picture this story, the game told me this narrative with little more than a few cards with just a couple of words apiece. It truly is ingenious. I cannot recommend this game enough. Make sure you pick it up when the campaign launches!", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'JTQuest', 'comment': 'KS ETA DEC 2022', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'KatDaddy', 'comment': 'A bad rule book is unforgivable!!!', 'rating': '5'}, {'username': 'kusti0152', 'comment': 'Based on introduction scenario. This was disappointement.I can see potential of this game but a way how you try to teach this game is not a good solution.', 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'landon1013', 'comment': 'I have only played the intro level, I need to re-rate after playing the "full" version of the game.  Category 0-5 Rating Experience (35%) - 4.5 Mechanics (20%) - 4 Involvement (20%) - 4 Game Length (10%) - 4 Weight of Game (10%) - 4 Aesthetics (5%) - 4 Score - 83.5 Star Rating - 8.35', 'rating': '8.35'}, {'username': 'Larryoturnbull', 'comment': 'Fantastic game with what looks like room to grow. Made use of FAQ, glossary and index. Played each mode and enjoyed the modes theme. Would have given it a 10 if it was easier to read the small text size in some important rules. Bring your magnifying glass and burn the west to the ground!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'LeonM19', 'comment': 'What a great game... a plethora of options what to do... a lot of stratrgy that can get quite complex the game is pretty modular and the thematic catched me.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'marcodegoede', 'comment': "Difficult to learn (lot of rules) but good to play after one try. We're going to play it again", 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'MaxBantamPlanet', 'comment': 'Best game ever? Ok fine, I am a little biased ; )', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'merlinsmess', 'comment': 'Kickstarter first 500', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'MigNix', 'comment': 'Seen this game evolve into one of the most special tabletop experiences I have ever had the pleasure of playing. The designer Ike Bruncardi should be proud of what he has accomplished. The level of detail is outstanding even in the prototype and I am so excited to see the final version... This is one of those rare gems to that will hopefully take the gaming world by storm to allow the world building to be expanded. Seriously impressive... Just Wow!', 'rating': '8.9'}, {'username': 'minh_han', 'comment': "I had been following this game since its beginnings on Kickstarter. Just the attention to detail during the planning and production of the game, along with extensive check-ins from the developers, made me look forward to getting it into my hands. When it arrived and I unboxed it, it did not disappoint. And, there's just SO MUCH there! The box is PACKED with material. The artwork and thematics are amazing. The quality of the materials is top notch. From the minis to the player boards to the linen-finished cards, everything feels so good in my hands. Unpacking it and putting everything in some semblance of order did take quite a while. I kinda regret not splurging on the Gametrayz insert. It would have made ordering the components much easier. And I wish the game came with more bags and of different sizes. I raided my bag collection to get all the components separated.  I just had my first ever play of the game with 3 people. Even watching the How To video on the game website, setting up the game for the first time was a bit intimidating. There's A LOT there. But once we started to play, things fell into place pretty quickly. After a short while, the actions and options became fairly intuitive. One thing that could have been explained a bit better is getting out of town to the outskirts. Because the Warm Welcome intro game only uses two boards, there are only two real ways out of the town in order to Endeavor. Also, it was unclear to us if one automatically transported to the outskirts tile once getting to the edge of town, or if that was another step. We might have spent more Grit than necessary moving from one place to another.   For me, the Warm Welcome intro game was just long enough to fill an evening, especially after spending 20 min to watch the How To Play video and another 15 min to set up the game. We fumbled through our first play, clarifying actions and rules as we went along. I think any more than what we did would have been overwhelming. After a few rounds, we got into the swing of things quickly. My buddy won with all four missions accomplished, while I only completed one, lol. I look forward to playing it again and diving in deeper into the game.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Moppersmurf', 'comment': 'M.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'motchismo', 'comment': 'KS DLX', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'murki', 'comment': 'to follow', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Not_People', 'comment': "A neat sandbox western that walks you through increasingly complex rules via different scenario setups.  However, not our favorite sandbox game.  And due to the increasing scenario complexity you will always be starting less interesting plays when you bring in new people.  Unless you push them to advanced play right away, which may overload them with choice.  Having something like the ambitions from Outer Rim would help direct new players who want to start off in an advanced mode.  Regardless, we didn't find a whole lot calling us to come back to this one.  Also, oddly, the advanced side of the boards switch graphics from day to night and are less nice to look at overall.  So once everyone gets accustomed to the game repeated plays happen on the uglier side of the boards.", 'rating': '6'}, {'username': 'panamajr', 'comment': 'KS', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Parabellum76', 'comment': 'Talk about inclusive character design... 4 initial characters to choose from and by some "miracle" they happen cover the full spectrum, by todays holier than thou standards, which also now blends into board game designs for better or worse.   Something for everybody to pick from, I know which character would be first pick for most gamers though.   I am just not convinced the distribution and mix of characters is realistic for the time period and therefore I am out. Not for me.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'paulrrahn', 'comment': 'Estimated delivery Dec 2022 (Nov 2023)', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'pbrunica', 'comment': 'Kickstarter backed. Ends August 12, 2021. Motto: Wish you were here!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Poins', 'comment': '+ Dead Settlers Map', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'PPMP', 'comment': 'Kickstarter Edition', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'puggi', 'comment': 'A few months ago, I made the decision to expand my board game collection with games that can fill an entire evening in terms of gameplay length and immersion. For each classic theme, I aimed to have at least one of these "big games," as I like to call them. Something like "Nemesis for space and aliens, Everrain for seafaring, Spring and Autumn for China," and so on. Bantam was my hope for representing the big game in the Western theme, and what can I say... 10/10, jackpot, bullseye, pick your favorite expression. This game has such a great variety of possibilities, each game is different. And the best part: no matter which way you choose, you can make points with it. I saw someone winning with killing every NPC he could find, I saw someone winning with selling wood…. This game is wonderful. Strategy tip: for experienced player (e.g. Brass Level) I encourage you to directly start with Master of Chaos, I tried it two times with different 4P-groups and each time it worked after two turns. A much greater game experience than the tutorial', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'rarroyo', 'comment': '100 Bantam Planet', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'RebJaenus', 'comment': "Cool, open world, western themed Immersive Tabletop Sim (their term).  Has a lot going on and is less fun with less of the stuff added.  Also needs to be played with the right mindset.  If played as a simple race to X number of points, nobody has much fun, because the point goals are a touch too easy, but if played with the open world, exploration mindset, it's very fun.", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'rendezvous_salatiga', 'comment': 'Great Sandbox Game', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'rigogarcia', 'comment': "Great game! My partner went in completely cold (hadn't read the rulebook), and I got her running within 20min. The ruleset and game mechanics are so intuitive. I can't wait to continue integrating additional gameplay features into future play throughs.  Solid design. Highly recommend! Great job, Ike and team! :)", 'rating': '8.5'}, {'username': 'Rivka', 'comment': 'Played at a library game session. Pros: interesting theme, high quality components, reasonable learning curve. Cons: definitely on the longer side of the time estimate (could easily take all afternoon), lots of fiddly components', 'rating': '7'}, {'username': 'Saw_Dust_Muncher', 'comment': "I love the them, mechanics, and team that put this together, can't wait to see what they do next", 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Secrethippy', 'comment': 'Just a really fun game, with loads of variety and paths to choose on your way to victory. Player interaction can be as much or as little as you want it to be. The way the game build up the modules is great. There’s just so much to do. 100% recommend', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'SentoTM', 'comment': 'No suelen morarme tanto tanto estos juegos, pero me llama. El Oeste siempre me llama... Bandolerooooooo', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sierosehero', 'comment': 'Deutsche Version', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'Sordeq', 'comment': 'Always a fun time. Every time we play it, even the teaching games are a blast.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'SupermanDX', 'comment': "Mark won via contest. He'll pass on whenever it's delivered.", 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'SUPRAMAN79', 'comment': 'Amazing game. Backed this as I was a massive fan of Western Legends but this game is Western Legends x 100. So many ways to score points. Yet to win a game but still keen to play and play again', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'TableForTwoPlayers', 'comment': "Bantam West is an incredibly thematic, immersive simulation/sandbox game.  So much so that even when the game end is triggered, I want to keep going just to see what buttons I can push and levers I can pull.  It strikes a good balance between being a strategic action efficiency game and having just enough luck to do the wild west theme justice.  There are lots of interesting decisions to be made: how much precious time/resources do I spend leveling up my character before I pursue victory points?  Do I spend my hard earned resources to level up my endeavor, making it easier to get them in the future, or do I sell them for cash?  At the same time, the random elements lead to moments of tension, excitement, and emergent storytelling.  The biggest downside to me is, because this game is such a detailed simulation, it is a tough teach.  When we played the intro scenario, it took quite a long time to teach, yet for all that, the actual gameplay was dead simple.  It felt like that initial scenario was a lot of work for little payoff, because it was very short, and half the mechanics in the game were not available to us.  I don't really see a way around this because any additional mechanics might have been too much for a first play, but it left us a bit unsatisfied.  Once we got to the Shadow Governor's scenario though, everything opened up and we were very glad we stuck with it.  Overall, I thoroughly enjoy this one, and can't wait to get it to the table again.", 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'Teslavstwain', 'comment': 'Such a fun, unique game! A lot to think about and heavy on setup, but so much fun packed into one box! I love the different take on deck-fighting and the many options for things to do on a turn. Highly recommend this one and am hopeful I am getting my hands on a copy through a friend!', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'tgravil', 'comment': 'My new favorite board game.  Lots to do in an open world environment. They definitely knock this game out of the park on their first try! Looking forward to expansions.', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Thing12Games', 'comment': 'GREAT game with a REALLY bad rule book. Worth struggling through the rules and ambiguity though.  Kinda feels like a western Xia.', 'rating': '8'}, {'username': 'VetruvianGamer', 'comment': '3-4', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'VittorioV', 'comment': 'Unique and fun boardgame', 'rating': '9'}, {'username': 'VJBeam', 'comment': 'I’ve been very lucky to get to play Bantam West over the last 6 months and have seen it continue to develop to a point now that this game really is something special! It’s one of those EPIC games!', 'rating': '10'}, {'username': 'Wreckage', 'comment': 'I like the theme, naturally, and from talking with the amazing access they provide I like it even more.  This one will be highly anticipated.', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'YogiBaldGuru', 'comment': 'En', 'rating': 'n/a'}, {'username': 'zenmazster', 'comment': "Solo'ing now to be able to teach it to game group next week.  Seems cool and vast with a lot of possibilities.  You'll for sure need a magnifying glass to read important info on some cards.  It's an odd production choice.  Take the smallest text you've seen on cards and shrink it another 50%.  That's my only complaint so far, game looks great besides that.  Random: i will say squarely between pages 8-9 was one of the coolest and most interesting things ive seen in a rulebook.  Its the fun touches like that that add tons of personality to the game.  Fun fact, before i realized what it was was, i thought it was a ton of ants that had somehoW invaded my rulebook and i threw it in the air and screamed LOL.  It looks soo real.", 'rating': 'n/a'}], 'name': 'Bantam West'})
